Title: Lag (2015:860) om internationella säkerhetsrätter i lösa saker
SFS Number: Svensk författningssamling 2015:860
URL: https://www.riksdagen.se/sv/dokument-och-lagar/dokument/svensk-forfattningssamling/lag-2015860-om-internationella-sakerhetsratter_sfs-2015-860/
Source Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfst?bet=2015:860
Amendment Register Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfsr?bet=2015:860
Ministry/Authority: Justitiedepartementet L3
Issued: 2015-12-03
Metadata: {"Utfärdad": "2015-12-03", "Ändrad": "t.o.m. SFS 2024:40"}

==================================================

Lag (2015:860) om internationella säkerhetsrätter i lösa saker
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.
SFS nr
:     
2015:860
Departement/myndighet
:   
Justitiedepartementet L3
Utfärdad
:   
2015-12-03
Ändrad
:   
t.o.m. SFS 2024:40
Ändringsregister
:
SFSR (Regeringskansliet)
Källa
:
Fulltext (Regeringskansliet)
Innehåll:
Övergångsbestämmelser
Lagens tillämpningsområde
1 §
Denna lag tillämpas på sådana säkerhetsrätter och  andra rättigheter som regleras i konventionen om  internationella säkerhetsrätter i lösa saker av den 16  november 2001 (Kapstadskonventionen) och
- protokollet till konventionen om internationella  säkerhetsrätter i lösa saker, om särskilda frågor rörande  luftfartsobjekt (luftfartsprotokollet), och
- protokollet till konventionen om internationella  säkerhetsrätter i lösa saker, om särskilda frågor rörande  rullande järnvägsmateriel (järnvägsprotokollet).
Lagen tillämpas också, i den utsträckning som följer av  konventionen, på sådana säkerhetsrätter och andra rättigheter  som har uppkommit enligt annan lag och som omfattas av  Sveriges förklaringar till artiklarna 39 och 40 i  konventionen. Förklaringarna finns, tillsammans med  förklaringar som avser artikel 54.2 i konventionen,  artiklarna XII och XIII i luftfartsprotokollet och artikel X  i järnvägsprotokollet, i Sveriges överenskommelser med  främmande makter (SÖ).
Lag (2018:475)
.
Internationella bestämmelser som ska gälla som svensk lag
2 §
Artiklarna 1-16, 18-22, 24-26, 28-38, 41-46 och 60.1 och 60.2 i Kapstadskonventionen ska i originaltexternas lydelse gälla som lag här i landet.
Första stycket gäller inte till den del bestämmelserna uteslutande reglerar registreringsorganet eller de fördragsslutande parternas förpliktelser mot varandra.
Konventionens engelska originaltext finns tillsammans med en svensk översättning som bilaga 1 till denna lag. Texterna på övriga originalspråk - arabiska, franska, kinesiska, ryska och spanska - finns i SÖ. Originaltexterna har samma giltighet.
3 §
Artiklarna I-VII, IX, XII-XVI och XX-XXV i  luftfartsprotokollet samt artiklarna I-V, VII, X, XI, XIV-XX  och XXVI.a i järnvägsprotokollet ska i originaltexternas  lydelse gälla som lag här i landet.
Luftfartsprotokollets engelska originaltext finns tillsammans  med en svensk översättning som bilaga 2 till denna lag.  Järnvägsprotokollets engelska originaltext finns tillsammans  med en svensk översättning som bilaga 3 till denna lag.  Protokollens texter på övriga originalspråk - arabiska,  franska, kinesiska, ryska och spanska - finns i SÖ.  Originaltexterna har samma giltighet.
Lag (2018:475)
.
Kvarhållande av luftfartsobjekt
4 §
I enlighet med Sveriges förklaring avseende artikel 39.1b i Kapstadskonventionen ska 2 och 3 §§ inte hindra att en borgenär med stöd av annan lag kvarhåller eller beslagtar ett luftfartsobjekt till säkerhet för en fordran, om denna fordran grundar sig på tillhandahållandet av offentliga tjänster.
Möjlighet att registrera vissa nationella rättigheter
5 §
I enlighet med Sveriges förklaring avseende artikel 40 i Kapstadskonventionen kan en säkerhetsrätt som uppkommer till följd av ett avgörande om kvarstad, betalningssäkring eller utmätning som meddelats av domstol eller av Kronofogdemyndigheten registreras i det internationella registret. Säkerhetsrätten ska därefter behandlas som en internationell säkerhetsrätt.
En borgenärs rätt att vidta åtgärder utan beslut av domstol
6 §
I enlighet med Sveriges förklaring avseende artikel 
54.2 i Kapstadskonventionen får en borgenär vidta åtgärder  enligt konventionen, luftfartsprotokollet eller  järnvägsprotokollet utan beslut av domstol, om det inte i  någon av överenskommelserna uttryckligen anges att beslut av  domstol är nödvändigt.
Lag (2018:475)
.
Reservforum
7 §
Om det finns svensk domsrätt enligt någon av de  bestämmelser i Kapstadskonventionen, luftfartsprotokollet  eller järnvägsprotokollet som anges i 2 och 3 §§ och någon  annan behörig domstol saknas, är Stockholms tingsrätt  behörig.
Lag (2018:475)
.
Tillämpliga bestämmelser i vissa insolvenssituationer
8 §
I en insolvenssituation enligt artikel I.2m i  luftfartsprotokollet tillämpas, om gäldenären har sina  huvudsakliga intressen i Sverige på så sätt som anges i  artikel I.2n, artikel XI alternativ A. Vid tillämpningen får  den väntetid som anges i artikeln inte överstiga 60  kalenderdagar.
I en insolvenssituation enligt artikel I.2c i  järnvägsprotokollet tillämpas, om gäldenären har sina  huvudsakliga intressen i Sverige på så sätt som anges i  artikel I.2d, artikel IX alternativ A. Vid tillämpningen får  den väntetid som anges i artikeln inte överstiga 60  kalenderdagar.
Avtalsparterna kan genom skriftligt avtal bestämma att första  eller andra stycket inte ska tillämpas.
Lag (2018:475)
.
Verkan av en registrering av en internationell säkerhetsrätt  i rullande järnvägsmateriel
9 §
I fråga om en sådan internationell säkerhetsrätt som  avses i artikel 2.2c Kapstadskonventionen (leasingavtal)  gäller ett köp av rullande järnvägsmateriel mot säljarens  borgenärer när säkerhetsrätten registreras i det  internationella registret.
Lag (2018:475)
.
Övergångsbestämmelser
2015:860
1. Denna lag träder i kraft den dag som regeringen bestämmer.
2. Bestämmelserna i 8 § tillämpas inte i insolvenssituationer som har uppkommit före ikraftträdandet.
2018:475
1. Denna lag träder i kraft den dag som regeringen  bestämmer.
2. De nya bestämmelserna i 8 § tillämpas inte i  insolvenssituationer som har uppkommit före  ikraftträdandet.
Bilaga 1
CONVENTION
ON INTERNATIONAL INTERESTS IN MOBILE EQUIPMENT
THE STATES PARTIES TO THIS CONVENTION,
AWARE of the need to acquire and use mobile equipment of high value or particular economic significance and to facilitate the financing of the acquisition and use of such equipment in an efficient manner,
RECOGNISING the advantages of asset-based financing and leasing for this purpose and desiring to facilitate these types of transaction by establishing clear rules to govern them,
MINDFUL of the need to ensure that interests in such equipment are recognised and protected universally,
DESIRING to provide broad and mutual economic benefits for all interested parties,
BELIEVING that such rules must reflect the principles underlying asset-based financing and leasing and promote the autonomy of the parties necessary in these transactions,
CONSCIOUS of the need to establish a legal framework for international interests in such equipment and for that purpose to create an international registration system for their protection,
TAKING INTO CONSIDERATION the objectives and principles enunciated in existing Conventions relating to such equipment,
HAVE AGREED upon the following provisions:
Chapter I
Sphere of application and general provisions
Article 1
Definitions
In this Convention, except where the context otherwise requires, the following terms are employed with the meanings set out below:
1. "agreement" means a security agreement, a title reservation agreement or a leasing agreement;
2. "assignment" means a contract which, whether by way of security or otherwise, confers on the assignee associated rights with or without a transfer of the related international interest;
3. "associated rights" means all rights to payment or other performance by a debtor under an agreement which are secured by or associated with the object;
4. "commencement of the insolvency proceedings" means the time at which the insolvency proceedings are deemed to commence under the applicable insolvency law;
5. "conditional buyer" means a buyer under a title reservation agreement;
6. "conditional seller" means a seller under a title reservation agreement;
7. "contract of sale" means a contract for the sale of an object by a seller to a buyer which is not an agreement as defined in (a) above;
8. "court" means a court of law or an administrative or arbitral tribunal established by a Contracting State;
9. "creditor" means a chargee under a security agreement, a conditional seller under a title reservation agreement or a lessor under a leasing agreement;
10. "debtor" means a chargor under a security agreement, a conditional buyer under a title reservation agreement, a lessee under a leasing agreement or a person whose interest in an object is burdened by a registrable non-consensual right or interest;
11. "insolvency administrator" means a person authorised to administer the reorganisation or liquidation, including one authorised on an interim basis, and includes a debtor in possession if permitted by the applicable insolvency law;
12. "insolvency proceedings" means bankruptcy, liquidation or other collective judicial or administrative proceedings, including interim proceedings, in which the assets and affairs of the debtor are subject to control or supervision by a court for the purposes of reorganisation or liquidation;
13. "interested persons" means:
(i) the debtor;
(ii) any person who, for the purpose of assuring performance of any of the obligations in favour of the creditor, gives or issues a suretyship or demand guarantee or a standby letter of credit or any other form of credit insurance;
(iii) any other person having rights in or over the object;
14. "internal transaction" means a transaction of a type listed in Article 2(2)(a) to (c) where the centre of the main interests of all parties to such transaction is situated, and the relevant object located (as specified in the Protocol), in the same Contracting State at the time of the conclusion of the contract and where the interest created by the transaction has been registered in a national registry in that Contracting State which has made a declaration under Article 50(1);
15. "international interest" means an interest held by a creditor to which Article 2 applies;
16. "International Registry" means the international registration facilities established for the purposes of this Convention or the Protocol;
17. "leasing agreement" means an agreement by which one person (the lessor) grants a right to possession or control of an object (with or without an option to purchase) to another person (the lessee) in return for a rental or other payment;
18. "national interest" means an interest held by a creditor in an object and created by an internal transaction covered by a declaration under Article 50(1);
19. "non-consensual right or interest" means a right or interest conferred under the law of a Contracting State which has made a declaration under Article 39 to secure the performance of an obligation, including an obligation to a State, State entity or an intergovernmental or private organisation;
20. "notice of a national interest" means notice registered or to be registered in the International Registry that a national interest has been created;
21. "object" means an object of a category to which Article 2 applies;
22. "pre-existing right or interest" means a right or interest of any kind in or over an object created or arising before the effective date of this Convention as defined by Article 60(2)(a);
23. "proceeds" means money or non-money proceeds of an object arising from the total or partial loss or physical destruction of the object or its total or partial confiscation, condemnation or requisition;
24. "prospective assignment" means an assignment that is intended to be made in the future, upon the occurrence of a stated event, whether or not the occurrence of the event is certain;
25. "prospective international interest" means an interest that is intended to be created or provided for in an object as an international interest in the future, upon the occurrence of a stated event (which may include the debtor's acquisition of an interest in the object), whether or not the occurrence of the event is certain;
26. "prospective sale" means a sale which is intended to be made in the future, upon the occurrence of a stated event, whether or not the occurrence of the event is certain;
aa) "Protocol" means, in respect of any category of object and associated rights to which this Convention applies, the Protocol in respect of that category of object and associated rights;
bb) "registered" means registered in the International Registry pursuant to Chapter V;
cc) "registered interest" means an international interest, a registrable non-consensual right or interest or a national interest specified in a notice of a national interest registered pursuant to Chapter V;
dd) "registrable non-consensual right or interest" means a non-consensual right or interest registrable pursuant to a declaration deposited under Article 40;
ee) "Registrar" means, in respect of the Protocol, the person or body designated by that Protocol or appointed under Article 17(2)(b);
ff) "regulations" means regulations made or approved by the Supervisory Authority pursuant to the Protocol;
gg) "sale" means a transfer of ownership of an object pursuant to a contract of sale;
hh) "secured obligation" means an obligation secured by a security interest;
ii) "security agreement" means an agreement by which a chargor grants or agrees to grant to a chargee an interest
(including an ownership interest) in or over an object to secure the performance of any existing or future obligation of the chargor or a third person;
jj) "security interest" means an interest created by a security agreement;
kk) "Supervisory Authority" means, in respect of the Protocol, the Supervisory Authority referred to in Article 17(1);
ll) "title reservation agreement" means an agreement for the sale of an object on terms that ownership does not pass until fulfilment of the condition or conditions stated in the agreement;
mm) "unregistered interest" means a consensual interest or non-consensual right or interest (other than an interest to which Article 39 applies) which has not been registered, whether or not it is registrable under this Convention; and
nn) "writing" means a record of information (including information communicated by teletransmission) which is in tangible or other form and is capable of being reproduced in tangible form on a subsequent occasion and which indicates by reasonable means a person's approval of the record.
Article 2
The international interest
1. This Convention provides for the constitution and effects of an international interest in certain categories of mobile equipment and associated rights.
2. For the purposes of this Convention, an international interest in mobile equipment is an interest, constituted under Article 7, in a uniquely identifiable object of a category of such objects listed in paragraph 3 and designated in the Protocol:
a) granted by the chargor under a security agreement;
b) vested in a person who is the conditional seller under a title reservation agreement; or
c) vested in a person who is the lessor under a leasing agreement.
An interest falling within sub-paragraph (a) does not also fall within sub-paragraph (b) or (c)
3. The categories referred to in the preceding paragraphs are:
a) airframes, aircraft engines and helicopters;
b) railway rolling stock; and
c) space assets.
4. The applicable law determines whether an interest to which paragraph 2 applies falls within subparagraph (a), (b) or (c)
of that paragraph.
5. An international interest in an object extends to proceeds of that object.
Article 3
Sphere of application
1. This Convention applies when, at the time of the conclusion of the agreement creating or providing for the international interest, the debtor is situated in a Contracting State.
2. The fact that the creditor is situated in a non-Contracting State does not affect the applicability of this Convention.
Article 4
Where debtor is situated
1. For the purposes of Article 3(1), the debtor is situated in any Contracting State:
a) under the law of which it is incorporated or formed;
b) where it has its registered office or statutory seat;
c) where it has its centre of administration; or
d) where it has its place of business.
2. A reference in sub-paragraph (d) of the preceding paragraph to the debtor's place of business shall, if it has more than one place of business, mean its principal place of business or, if it has no place of business, its habitual residence.
Article 5
Interpretation and applicable law
1. In the interpretation of this Convention, regard is to be had to its purposes as set forth in the preamble, to its international character and to the need to promote uniformity and predictability in its application.
2. Questions concerning matters governed by this Convention which are not expressly settled in it are to be settled in conformity with the general principles on which it is based or, in the absence of such principles, in conformity with the applicable law.
3. References to the applicable law are to the domestic rules of the law applicable by virtue of the rules of private international law of the forum State.
4. Where a State comprises several territorial units, each of which has its own rules of law in respect of the matter to be decided, and where there is no indication of the relevant territorial unit, the law of that State decides which is the territorial unit whose rules shall govern. In the absence of any such rule, the law of the territorial unit with which the case is most closely connected shall apply.
Article 6
Relationship between the Convention and the Protocol
1. This Convention and the Protocol shall be read and interpreted together as a single instrument.
2. To the extent of any inconsistency between this Convention and the Protocol, the Protocol shall prevail.
Chapter II
Constitution of an international interest
Article 7
Formal requirements
An interest is constituted as an international interest under this Convention where the agreement creating or providing for the interest:
a) is in writing;
b) relates to an object of which the chargor, conditional seller or lessor has power to dispose;
c) enables the object to be identified in conformity with the Protocol; and
d) in the case of a security agreement, enables the secured obligations to be determined, but without the need to state a sum or maximum sum secured.
Chapter III
Default remedies
Article 8
Remedies of chargee
1. In the event of default as provided in Article 11, the chargee may, to the extent that the chargor has at any time so agreed and subject to any declaration that may be made by a Contracting State under Article 54, exercise any one or more of the following remedies:
a) take possession or control of any object charged to it;
b) sell or grant a lease of any such object;
c) collect or receive any income or profits arising from the management or use of any such object.
2. The chargee may alternatively apply for a court order authorising or directing any of the acts referred to in the preceding paragraph.
3. Any remedy set out in sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of paragraph 1 or by Article 13 shall be exercised in a commercially reasonable manner. A remedy shall be deemed to be exercised in a commercially reasonable manner where it is exercised in conformity with a provision of the security agreement except where such a provision is manifestly unreasonable.
4. A chargee proposing to sell or grant a lease of an object under paragraph 1 shall give reasonable prior notice in writing of the proposed sale or lease to:
a) interested persons specified in Article 1(m)(i) and (ii);
and
b) interested persons specified in Article 1(m)(iii) who have given notice of their rights to the chargee within a reasonable time prior to the sale or lease.
5. Any sum collected or received by the chargee as a result of exercise of any of the remedies set out in paragraph 1 or 2 shall be applied towards discharge of the amount of the secured obligations.
6. Where the sums collected or received by the chargee as a result of the exercise of any remedy set out in paragraph 1 or 2 exceed the amount secured by the security interest and any reasonable costs incurred in the exercise of any such remedy, then unless otherwise ordered by the court the chargee shall distribute the surplus among holders of subsequently ranking interests which have been registered or of which the chargee has been given notice, in order of priority, and pay any remaining balance to the chargor.
Article 9
Vesting of object in satisfaction; redemption
1. At any time after default as provided in Article 11, the chargee and all the interested persons may agree that ownership of (or any other interest of the chargor in) any object covered by the security interest shall vest in the chargee in or towards satisfaction of the secured obligations.
2. The court may on the application of the chargee order that ownership of (or any other interest of the chargor in) any object covered by the security interest shall vest in the chargee in or towards satisfaction of the secured obligations.
3. The court shall grant an application under the preceding paragraph only if the amount of the secured obligations to be satisfied by such vesting is commensurate with the value of the object after taking account of any payment to be made by the chargee to any of the interested persons.
4. At any time after default as provided in Article 11 and before sale of the charged object or the making of an order under paragraph 2, the chargor or any interested person may discharge the security interest by paying in full the amount secured, subject to any lease granted by the chargee under Article 8(1)(b) or ordered under Article 8(2). Where, after such default, the payment of the amount secured is made in full by an interested person other than the debtor, that person is subrogated to the rights of the chargee.
5. Ownership or any other interest of the chargor passing on a sale under Article 8(1)(b) or passing under paragraph 1 or 2 of this Article is free from any other interest over which the chargee's security interest has priority under the provisions of Article 29.
Article 10
Remedies of conditional seller or lessor
1. In the event of default under a title reservation agreement or under a leasing agreement as provided in Article 11, the conditional seller or the lessor, as the case may be, may:
a) subject to any declaration that may be made by a Contracting State under Article 54, terminate the agreement and take possession or control of any object to which the agreement relates; or
b) apply for a court order authorising or directing either of these acts.
Article 11
Meaning of default
1. The debtor and the creditor may at any time agree in writing as to the events that constitute a default or otherwise give rise to the rights and remedies specified in Articles 8 to 10 and 13.
2. Where the debtor and the creditor have not so agreed,
"default" for the purposes of Articles 8 to 10 and 13 means a default which substantially deprives the creditor of what it is entitled to expect under the agreement.
Article 12
Additional remedies
Any additional remedies permitted by the applicable law, including any remedies agreed upon by the parties, may be exercised to the extent that they are not inconsistent with the mandatory provisions of this Chapter as set out in Article 15.
Article 13
Relief pending final determination
1. Subject to any declaration that it may make under Article 55, a Contracting State shall ensure that a creditor who adduces evidence of default by the debtor may, pending final determination of its claim and to the extent that the debtor has at any time so agreed, obtain from a court speedy relief in the form of such one or more of the following orders as the creditor requests:
a) preservation of the object and its value;
b) possession, control or custody of the object;
c) immobilisation of the object; and
d) lease or, except where covered by sub-paragraphs (a) to
(c), management of the object and the income therefrom.
2. In making any order under the preceding paragraph, the court may impose such terms as it considers necessary to protect the interested persons in the event that the creditor:
a) in implementing any order granting such relief, fails to perform any of its obligations to the debtor under this Convention or the Protocol; or
b) fails to establish its claim, wholly or in part, on the final determination of that claim.
3. Before making any order under paragraph 1, the court may require notice of the request to be given to any of the interested persons.
4. Nothing in this Article affects the application of Article 8(3) or limits the availability of forms of interim relief other than those set out in paragraph 1.
Article 14
Procedural requirements
Subject to Article 54(2), any remedy provided by this Chapter shall be exercised in conformity with the procedure prescribed by the law of the place where the remedy is to be exercised.
Article 15
Derogation
In their relations with each other, any two or more of the parties referred to in this Chapter may at any time, by agreement in writing, derogate from or vary the effect of any of the preceding provisions of this Chapter except Articles 8(3) to (6), 9(3) and (4), 13(2) and 14.
Chapter IV
The international registration system
Article 16
The International Registry
1. An International Registry shall be established for registrations of:
a) international interests, prospective international interests and registrable non-consensual rights and interests;
b) assignments and prospective assignments of international interests;
c) acquisitions of international interests by legal or contractual subrogations under the applicable law;
d) notices of national interests; and
e) subordinations of interests referred to in any of the preceding sub-paragraphs.
2. Different international registries may be established for different categories of object and associated rights.
3. For the purposes of this Chapter and Chapter V, the term
"registration" includes, where appropriate, an amendment, extension or discharge of a registration.
Article 17
The Supervisory Authority and the Registrar
1. There shall be a Supervisory Authority as provided by the Protocol.
2. The Supervisory Authority shall:
a) establish or provide for the establishment of the International Registry;
b) except as otherwise provided by the Protocol, appoint and dismiss the Registrar;
c) ensure that any rights required for the continued effective operation of the International Registry in the event of a change of Registrar will vest in or be assignable to the new Registrar;
d) after consultation with the Contracting States, make or approve and ensure the publication of regulations pursuant to the Protocol dealing with the operation of the International Registry;
e) establish administrative procedures through which complaints concerning the operation of the International Registry can be made to the Supervisory Authority;
f) supervise the Registrar and the operation of the International Registry;
g) at the request of the Registrar, provide such guidance to the Registrar as the Supervisory Authority thinks fit;
h) set and periodically review the structure of fees to be charged for the services and facilities of the International Registry;
i) do all things necessary to ensure that an efficient notice-based electronic registration system exists to implement the objectives of this Convention and the Protocol;
and
j) report periodically to Contracting States concerning the discharge of its obligations under this Convention and the Protocol.
3. The Supervisory Authority may enter into any agreement requisite for the performance of its functions, including any agreement referred to in Article 27(3).
4. The Supervisory Authority shall own all proprietary rights in the data bases and archives of the International Registry.
5. The Registrar shall ensure the efficient operation of the International Registry and perform the functions assigned to it by this Convention, the Protocol and the regulations.
Chapter V
Other matters relating to registration
Article 18
Registration requirements
1. The Protocol and regulations shall specify the requirements, including the criteria for the identification of the object:
a) for effecting a registration (which shall include provision for prior electronic transmission of any consent from any person whose consent is required under Article;
b) for making searches and issuing search certificates, and, subject thereto;
c) for ensuring the confidentiality of information and documents of the International Registry other than information and documents relating to a registration.
2. The Registrar shall not be under a duty to enquire whether a consent to registration under Article 20 has in fact been given or is valid.
3. Where an interest registered as a prospective international interest becomes an international interest, no further registration shall be required provided that the registration information is sufficient for a registration of an international interest.
4. The Registrar shall arrange for registrations to be entered into the International Registry data base and made searchable in chronological order of receipt, and the file shall record the date and time of receipt.
5. The Protocol may provide that a Contracting State may designate an entity or entities in its territory as the entry point or entry points through which the information required for registration shall or may be transmitted to the International Registry. A Contracting State making such a designation may specify the requirements, if any, to be satisfied before such information is transmitted to the International Registry.
Article 19
Validity and time of registration
1. A registration shall be valid only if made in conformity with Article 20.
2. A registration, if valid, shall be complete upon entry of the required information into the International Registry data base so as to be searchable.
3. A registration shall be searchable for the purposes of the preceding paragraph at the time when:
a) the International Registry has assigned to it a sequentially ordered file number; and
b) the registration information, including the file number, is stored in durable form and may be accessed at the International Registry.
4. If an interest first registered as a prospective international interest becomes an international interest, that international interest shall be treated as registered from the time of registration of the prospective international interest provided that the registration was still current immediately before the international interest was constituted as provided by Article 7.
5. The preceding paragraph applies with necessary modifications to the registration of a prospective assignment of an international interest.
6. A registration shall be searchable in the International Registry data base according to the criteria prescribed by the Protocol.
Article 20
Consent to registration
1. An international interest, a prospective international interest or an assignment or prospective assignment of an international interest may be registered, and any such registration amended or extended prior to its expiry, by either party with the consent in writing of the other.
2. The subordination of an international interest to another international interest may be registered by or with the consent in writing at any time of the person whose interest has been subordinated.
3. A registration may be discharged by or with the consent in writing of the party in whose favour it was made.
4. The acquisition of an international interest by legal or contractual subrogation may be registered by the subrogee.
5. A registrable non-consensual right or interest may be registered by the holder thereof.
6. A notice of a national interest may be registered by the holder thereof.
Article 21
Duration of registration
Registration of an international interest remains effective until discharged or until expiry of the period specified in the registration.
Article 22
Searches
1. Any person may, in the manner prescribed by the Protocol and regulations, make or request a search of the International Registry by electronic means concerning interests or prospective international interests registered therein.
2. Upon receipt of a request therefor, the Registrar, in the manner prescribed by the Protocol and regulations, shall issue a registry search certificate by electronic means with respect to any object:
a) stating all registered information relating thereto, together with a statement indicating the date and time of registration of such information; or
b) stating that there is no information in the International Registry relating thereto.
3. A search certificate issued under the preceding paragraph shall indicate that the creditor named in the registration information has acquired or intends to acquire an international interest in the object but shall not indicate whether what is registered is an international interest or a prospective international interest, even if this is ascertainable from the relevant registration information.
Article 23
List of declarations and declared non-consensual rights or interests
The Registrar shall maintain a list of declarations, withdrawals of declaration and of the categories of nonconsensual right or interest communicated to the Registrar by the Depositary as having been declared by Contracting States in conformity with Articles 39 and 40 and the date of each such declaration or withdrawal of declaration. Such list shall be recorded and searchable in the name of the declaring State and shall be made available as provided in the Protocol and regulations to any person requesting it.
Article 24
Evidentiary value of certificates
A document in the form prescribed by the regulations which purports to be a certificate issued by the International Registry is prima facie proof:
a) that it has been so issued; and
b) of the facts recited in it, including the date and time of a registration.
Article 25
Discharge of registration
1. Where the obligations secured by a registered security interest or the obligations giving rise to a registered non-consensual right or interest have been discharged, or where the conditions of transfer of title under a registered title reservation agreement have been fulfilled, the holder of such interest shall, without undue delay, procure the discharge of the registration after written demand by the debtor delivered to or received at its address stated in the registration.
2. Where a prospective international interest or a prospective assignment of an international interest has been registered, the intending creditor or intending assignee shall, without undue delay, procure the discharge of the registration after written demand by the intending debtor or assignor which is delivered to or received at its address stated in the registration before the intending creditor or assignee has given value or incurred a commitment to give value.
3. Where the obligations secured by a national interest specified in a registered notice of a national interest have been discharged, the holder of such interest shall, without undue delay, procure the discharge of the registration after written demand by the debtor delivered to or received at its address stated in the registration.
4. Where a registration ought not to have been made or is incorrect, the person in whose favour the registration was made shall, without undue delay, procure its discharge or amendment after written demand by the debtor delivered to or received at its address stated in the registration.
Article 26
Access to the international registration facilities
No person shall be denied access to the registration and search facilities of the International Registry on any ground other than its failure to comply with the procedures prescribed by this Chapter.
Chapter VI
Privileges and immunities of
the Supervisory Authority and the Registrar
Article 27
Legal personality; immunity
1. The Supervisory Authority shall have international legal personality where not already possessing such personality.
2. The Supervisory Authority and its officers and employees shall enjoy such immunity from legal or administrative process as is specified in the Protocol.
3 a) The Supervisory Authority shall enjoy exemption from taxes and such other privileges as may be provided by agreement with the host State.
b) For the purposes of this paragraph, "host State" means the State in which the Supervisory Authority is situated.
4. The assets, documents, data bases and archives of the International Registry shall be inviolable and immune from seizure or other legal or administrative process.
5. For the purposes of any claim against the Registrar under Article 28(1) or Article 44, the claimant shall be entitled to access to such information and documents as are necessary to enable the claimant to pursue its claim.
6. The Supervisory Authority may waive the inviolability and immunity conferred by paragraph 4.
Chapter VII
Liability of the Registrar
Article 28
Liability and financial assurances
1. The Registrar shall be liable for compensatory damages for loss suffered by a person directly resulting from an error or omission of the Registrar and its officers and employees or from a malfunction of the international registration system except where the malfunction is caused by an event of an inevitable and irresistible nature, which could not be prevented by using the best practices in current use in the field of electronic registry design and operation, including those related to back-up and systems security and networking.
2. The Registrar shall not be liable under the preceding paragraph for factual inaccuracy of registration information received by the Registrar or transmitted by the Registrar in the form in which it received that information nor for acts or circumstances for which the Registrar and its officers and employees are not responsible and arising prior to receipt of registration information at the International Registry.
3. Compensation under paragraph 1 may be reduced to the extent that the person who suffered the damage caused or contributed to that damage.
4. The Registrar shall procure insurance or a financial guarantee covering the liability referred to in this Article to the extent determined by the Supervisory Authority, in accordance with the Protocol.
Chapter VIII
Effects of an international interest as against third parties
Article 29
Priority of competing interests
1. A registered interest has priority over any other interest subsequently registered and over an unregistered interest.
2. The priority of the first-mentioned interest under the preceding paragraph applies:
a) even if the first-mentioned interest was acquired or registered with actual knowledge of the other interest; and
b) even as regards value given by the holder of the first-mentioned interest with such knowledge.
3. The buyer of an object acquires its interest in it:
a) subject to an interest registered at the time of its acquisition of that interest; and
b) free from an unregistered interest even if it has actual knowledge of such an interest.
4. The conditional buyer or lessee acquires its interest in or right over that object:
a) subject to an interest registered prior to the registration of the international interest held by its conditional seller or lessor; and
b) free from an interest not so registered at that time even if it has actual knowledge of that interest.
5. The priority of competing interests or rights under this Article may be varied by agreement between the holders of those interests, but an assignee of a subordinated interest is not bound by an agreement to subordinate that interest unless at the time of the assignment a subordination had been registered relating to that agreement.
6. Any priority given by this Article to an interest in an object extends to proceeds.
7. This Convention:
a) does not affect the rights of a person in an item, other than an object, held prior to its installation on an object if under the applicable law those rights continue to exist after the installation; and
b) does not prevent the creation of rights in an item, other than an object, which has previously been installed on an object where under the applicable law those rights are created.
Article 30
Effects of insolvency
1. In insolvency proceedings against the debtor an international interest is effective if prior to the commencement of the insolvency proceedings that interest was registered in conformity with this Convention.
2. Nothing in this Article impairs the effectiveness of an international interest in the insolvency proceedings where that interest is effective under the applicable law.
3. Nothing in this Article affects:
a) any rules of law applicable in insolvency proceedings relating to the avoidance of a transaction as a preference or a transfer in fraud of creditors; or
b) any rules of procedure relating to the enforcement of rights to property which is under the control or supervision of the insolvency administrator.
Chapter IX
Assignments of associated rights and international interests;
rights of subrogation
Article 31
Effects of assignment
1. Except as otherwise agreed by the parties, an assignment of associated rights made in conformity with Article 32 also transfers to the assignee:
a) the related international interest; and
b) all the interests and priorities of the assignor under this Convention.
2. Nothing in this Convention prevents a partial assignment of the assignor's associated rights. In the case of such a partial assignment the assignor and assignee may agree as to their respective rights concerning the related international interest assigned under the preceding paragraph but not so as adversely to affect the debtor without its consent.
3. Subject to paragraph 4, the applicable law shall determine the defences and rights of set-off available to the debtor against the assignee.
4. The debtor may at any time by agreement in writing waive all or any of the defences and rights of set-off referred to in the preceding paragraph other than defences arising from fraudulent acts on the part of the assignee.
5. In the case of an assignment by way of security, the assigned associated rights revest in the assignor, to the extent that they are still subsisting, when the obligations secured by the assignment have been discharged.
Article 32
Formal requirements of assignment
1. An assignment of associated rights transfers the related international interest only if it:
a) is in writing;
b) enables the associated rights to be identified under the contract from which they arise; and
c) in the case of an assignment by way of security, enables the obligations secured by the assignment to be determined in accordance with the Protocol but without the need to state a sum or maximum sum secured.
2. An assignment of an international interest created or provided for by a security agreement is not valid unless some or all related associated rights also are assigned.
3. This Convention does not apply to an assignment of associated rights which is not effective to transfer the related international interest.
Article 33
Debtor's duty to assignee
1. To the extent that associated rights and the related international interest have been transferred in accordance with Articles 31 and 32, the debtor in relation to those rights and that interest is bound by the assignment and has a duty to make payment or give other performance to the assignee, if but only if:
a) the debtor has been given notice of the assignment in writing by or with the authority of the assignor; and
b) the notice identifies the associated rights.
2. Irrespective of any other ground on which payment or performance by the debtor discharges the latter from liability, payment or performance shall be effective for this purpose if made in accordance with the preceding paragraph.
3. Nothing in this Article shall affect the priority of competing assignments.
Article 34
Default remedies in respect of assignment by way of security In the event of default by the assignor under the assignment of associated rights and the related international interest made by way of security, Articles 8, 9 and 11 to 14 apply in the relations between the assignor and the assignee
(and, in relation to associated rights, apply in so far as those provisions are capable of application to intangible property) as if references:
a) to the secured obligation and the security interest were references to the obligation secured by the assignment of the associated rights and the related international interest and the security interest created by that assignment;
b) to the chargee or creditor and chargor or debtor were references to the assignee and assignor;
c) to the holder of the international interest were references to the assignee; and
d) to the object were references to the assigned associated rights and the related international interest.
Article 35
Priority of competing assignments
1. Where there are competing assignments of associated rights and at least one of the assignments includes the related international interest and is registered, the provisions of Article 29 apply as if the references to a registered interest were references to an assignment of the associated rights and the related registered interest and as if references to a registered or unregistered interest were references to a registered or unregistered assignment.
2. Article 30 applies to an assignment of associated rights as if the references to an international interest were references to an assignment of the associated rights and the related international interest.
Article 36
Assignee's priority with respect to associated rights
1. The assignee of associated rights and the related international interest whose assignment has been registered only has priority under Article 35(1) over another assignee of the associated rights:
a) if the contract under which the associated rights arise states that they are secured by or associated with the object; and
b) to the extent that the associated rights are related to an object.
2. For the purposes of sub-paragraph (b) of the preceding paragraph, associated rights are related to an object only to the extent that they consist of rights to payment or performance that relate to:
a) a sum advanced and utilised for the purchase of the object;
b) a sum advanced and utilised for the purchase of another object in which the assignor held another international interest if the assignor transferred that interest to the assignee and the assignment has been registered;
c) the price payable for the object;
d) the rentals payable in respect of the object; or
e) other obligations arising from a transaction referred to in any of the preceding subparagraphs.
3. In all other cases, the priority of the competing assignments of the associated rights shall be determined by the applicable law.
Article 37
Effects of assignor's insolvency
The provisions of Article 30 apply to insolvency proceedings against the assignor as if references to the debtor were references to the assignor.
Article 38
Subrogation
1. Subject to paragraph 2, nothing in this Convention affects the acquisition of associated rights and the related international interest by legal or contractual subrogation under the applicable law.
2. The priority between any interest within the preceding paragraph and a competing interest may be varied by agreement in writing between the holders of the respective interests but an assignee of a subordinated interest is not bound by an agreement to subordinate that interest unless at the time of the assignment a subordination had been registered relating to that agreement.
Chapter X
Rights or interests subject to declarations by Contracting States
Article 39
Rights having priority without registration
1. A Contracting State may at any time, in a declaration deposited with the Depositary of the Protocol declare, generally or specifically:
a) those categories of non-consensual right or interest
(other than a right or interest to which Article 40 applies)
which under that State's law have priority over an interest in an object equivalent to that of the holder of a registered international interest and which shall have priority over a registered international interest, whether in or outside insolvency proceedings; and
b) that nothing in this Convention shall affect the right of a State or State entity, intergovernmental organisation or other private provider of public services to arrest or detain an object under the laws of that State for payment of amounts owed to such entity, organisation or provider directly relating to those services in respect of that object or another object.
2. A declaration made under the preceding paragraph may be expressed to cover categories that are created after the deposit of that declaration.
3. A non-consensual right or interest has priority over an international interest if and only if the former is of a category covered by a declaration deposited prior to the registration of the international interest.
4. Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, a Contracting State may, at the time of ratification, acceptance, approval of, or accession to the Protocol, declare that a right or interest of a category covered by a declaration made under sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 1 shall have priority over an international interest registered prior to the date of such ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.
Article 40
Registrable non-consensual rights or interests
A Contracting State may at any time in a declaration deposited with the Depositary of the Protocol list the categories of non-consensual right or interest which shall be registrable under this Convention as regards any category of object as if the right or interest were an international interest and shall be regulated accordingly. Such a declaration may be modified from time to time.
Chapter XI
Application of the Convention to sales
Article 41
Sale and prospective sale
This Convention shall apply to the sale or prospective sale of an object as provided for in the Protocol with any modifications therein.
Chapter XII
Jurisdiction
Article 42
Choice of forum
1. Subject to Articles 43 and 44, the courts of a Contracting State chosen by the parties to a transaction have jurisdiction in respect of any claim brought under this Convention, whether or not the chosen forum has a connection with the parties or the transaction. Such jurisdiction shall be exclusive unless otherwise agreed between the parties.
2. Any such agreement shall be in writing or otherwise concluded in accordance with the formal requirements of the law of the chosen forum.
Article 43
Jurisdiction under Article 13
1. The courts of a Contracting State chosen by the parties and the courts of the Contracting State on the territory of which the object is situated have jurisdiction to grant relief under Article 13(1)(a), (b), (c) and Article 13(4) in respect of that object.
2. Jurisdiction to grant relief under Article 13(1)(d) or other interim relief by virtue of Article 13(4) may be exercised either:
a) by the courts chosen by the parties; or
b) by the courts of a Contracting State on the territory of which the debtor is situated, being relief which, by the terms of the order granting it, is enforceable only in the territory of that Contracting State.
3. A court has jurisdiction under the preceding paragraphs even if the final determination of the claim referred to in Article 13(1) will or may take place in a court of another Contracting State or by arbitration.
Article 44
Jurisdiction to make orders against the Registrar
1. The courts of the place in which the Registrar has its centre of administration shall have exclusive jurisdiction to award damages or make orders against the Registrar.
2. Where a person fails to respond to a demand made under Article 25 and that person has ceased to exist or cannot be found for the purpose of enabling an order to be made against it requiring it to procure discharge of the registration, the courts referred to in the preceding paragraph shall have exclusive jurisdiction, on the application of the debtor or intending debtor, to make an order directed to the Registrar requiring the Registrar to discharge the registration.
3. Where a person fails to comply with an order of a court having jurisdiction under this Convention or, in the case of a national interest, an order of a court of competent jurisdiction requiring that person to procure the amendment or discharge of a registration, the courts referred to in paragraph 1 may direct the Registrar to take such steps as will give effect to that order.
4. Except as otherwise provided by the preceding paragraphs, no court may make orders or give judgments or rulings against or purporting to bind the Registrar.
Article 45
Jurisdiction in respect of insolvency proceedings
The provisions of this Chapter are not applicable to insolvency proceedings.
Chapter XIII
Relationship with other Conventions
Article 45 bis
Relationship with the United Nations Convention on the Assignment of Receivables in International Trade
This Convention shall prevail over the United Nations Convention on the Assignment of Receivables in International Trade, opened for signature in New York on 12 December 2001, as it relates to the assignment of receivables which are associated rights related to international interests in aircraft objects, railway rolling stock and space assets.
Article 46
Relationship with the UNIDROIT Convention on International Financial Leasing
The Protocol may determine the relationship between this Convention and the UNIDROIT Convention on International Financial Leasing, signed at Ottawa on 28 May 1988.
Chapter XIV
Final provisions
Article 47
Signature, ratification, acceptance, approval or accession
1. This Convention shall be open for signature in Cape Town on 16 November 2001 by States participating in the Diplomatic Conference to Adopt a Mobile Equipment Convention and an Aircraft Protocol held at Cape Town from 29 October to 16 November 2001. After 16 November 2001, the Convention shall be open to all States for signature at the Headquarters of the International Institute for the Unification of Private Law (UNIDROIT) in Rome until it enters into force in accordance with Article 49.
2. This Convention shall be subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by States which have signed it.
3. Any State which does not sign this Convention may accede to it at any time.
4. Ratification, acceptance, approval or accession is effected by the deposit of a formal instrument to that effect with the Depositary.
Article 48
Regional Economic Integration Organisations
1. A Regional Economic Integration Organisation which is constituted by sovereign States and has competence over certain matters governed by this Convention may similarly sign, accept, approve or accede to this Convention. The Regional Economic Integration Organisation shall in that case have the rights and obligations of a Contracting State, to the extent that that Organisation has competence over matters governed by this Convention. Where the number of Contracting States is relevant in this Convention, the Regional Economic Integration Organisation shall not count as a Contracting State in addition to its Member States which are Contracting States.
2. Regional Economic Integration Organisation shall, at the time of signature, acceptance, approval or accession, make a declaration to the Depositary specifying the matters governed by this Convention in respect of which competence has been transferred to that Organisation by its Member States. The Regional Economic Integration Organisation shall promptly notify the Depositary of any changes to the distribution of competence, including new transfers of competence, specified in the declaration under this paragraph.
3. Any reference to a "Contracting State" or "Contracting States" or "State Party" or "States Parties" in this Convention applies equally to a Regional Economic Integration Organisation where the context so requires.
Article 49
Entry into force
1. This Convention enters into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of three months after the date of the deposit of the third instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession but only as regards a category of objects to which a Protocol applies:
a) as from the time of entry into force of that Protocol;
b) subject to the terms of that Protocol; and
c) as between States Parties to this Convention and that Protocol.
2. For other States this Convention enters into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of three months after the date of the deposit of their instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession but only as regards a category of objects to which a Protocol applies and subject, in relation to such Protocol, to the requirements of sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of the preceding paragraph.
Article 50
Internal transactions
1. A Contracting State may, at the time of ratification, acceptance, approval of, or accession to the Protocol, declare that this Convention shall not apply to a transaction which is an internal transaction in relation to that State with regard to all types of objects or some of them.
2. Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, the provisions of Articles 8(4), 9(1), 16, Chapter V, Article 29, and any provisions of this Convention relating to registered interests shall apply to an internal transaction.
3. Where notice of a national interest has been registered in the International Registry, the priority of the holder of that interest under Article 29 shall not be affected by the fact that such interest has become vested in another person by assignment or subrogation under the applicable law.
Article 51
Future Protocols
1. The Depositary may create working groups, in co-operation with such relevant non- governmental organisations as the Depositary considers appropriate, to assess the feasibility of extending the application of this Convention, through one or more Protocols, to objects of any category of high-value mobile equipment, other than a category referred to in Article 2(3), each member of which is uniquely identifiable, and associated rights relating to such objects.
2. The Depositary shall communicate the text of any preliminary draft Protocol relating to a category of objects prepared by such a working group to all States Parties to this Convention, all member States of the Depositary, member States of the United Nations which are not members of the Depositary and the relevant intergovernmental organisations, and shall invite such States and organisations to participate in intergovernmental negotiations for the completion of a draft Protocol on the basis of such a preliminary draft Protocol.
3. The Depositary shall also communicate the text of any preliminary draft Protocol prepared by such a working group to such relevant non-governmental organisations as the Depositary considers appropriate. Such non-governmental organisations shall be invited promptly to submit comments on the text of the preliminary draft Protocol to the Depositary and to participate as observers in the preparation of a draft Protocol.
4. When the competent bodies of the Depositary adjudge such a draft Protocol ripe for adoption, the Depositary shall convene a diplomatic conference for its adoption.
5. Once such a Protocol has been adopted, subject to paragraph 6, this Convention shall apply to the category of objects covered thereby.
6. Article 45 bis of this Convention applies to such a Protocol only if specifically provided for in that Protocol.
Article 52
Territorial units
1. If a Contracting State has territorial units in which different systems of law are applicable in relation to the matters dealt with in this Convention, it may, at the time of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, declare that this Convention is to extend to all its territorial units or only to one or more of them and may modify its declaration by submitting another declaration at any time.
2. Any such declaration shall state expressly the territorial units to which this Convention applies.
3. If a Contracting State has not made any declaration under paragraph 1, this Convention shall apply to all territorial units of that State.
4. Where a Contracting State extends this Convention to one or more of its territorial units, declarations permitted under this Convention may be made in respect of each such territorial unit, and the declarations made in respect of one territorial unit may be different from those made in respect of another territorial unit.
5. If by virtue of a declaration under paragraph 1, this Convention extends to one or more territorial units of a Contracting State:
a) the debtor is considered to be situated in a Contracting State only if it is incorporated or formed under a law in force in a territorial unit to which this Convention applies or if it has its registered office or statutory seat, centre of administration, place of business or habitual residence in a territorial unit to which this Convention applies;
b) any reference to the location of the object in a Contracting State refers to the location of the object in a territorial unit to which this Convention applies; and
c) any reference to the administrative authorities in that Contracting State shall be construed as referring to the administrative authorities having jurisdiction in a territorial unit to which this Convention applies.
Article 53
Determination of courts
A Contracting State may, at the time of ratification, acceptance, approval of, or accession to the Protocol, declare the relevant "court" or "courts" for the purposes of Article 1 and Chapter XII of this Convention.
Article 54
Declarations regarding remedies
1. A Contracting State may, at the time of ratification, acceptance, approval of, or accession to the Protocol, declare that while the charged object is situated within, or controlled from its territory the chargee shall not grant a lease of the object in that territory.
2. A Contracting State shall, at the time of ratification, acceptance, approval of, or accession to the Protocol, declare whether or not any remedy available to the creditor under any provision of this leave of the court.
Article 55
Declarations regarding relief pending final determination
A Contracting State may, at the time of ratification, acceptance, approval of, or accession to the Protocol, declare that it will not apply the provisions of Article 13 or Article 43, or both, wholly or in part. The declaration shall specify under which conditions the relevant Article will be applied, in case it will be applied partly, or otherwise which other forms of interim relief will be applied.
Article 56
Reservations and declarations
1. No reservations may be made to this Convention but declarations authorised by Articles 39, 40, 50, 52, 53, 54, 55, 57, 58 and 60 may be made in accordance with these provisions.
2. Any declaration or subsequent declaration or any withdrawal of a declaration made under this Convention shall be notified in writing to the Depositary.
Article 57
Subsequent declarations
1. A State Party may make a subsequent declaration, other than a declaration authorised under Article 60, at any time after the date on which this Convention has entered into force for it, by notifying the Depositary to that effect.
2. Any such subsequent declaration shall take effect on the first day of the month following the expiration of six months after the date of receipt of the notification by the Depositary. Where a longer period for that declaration to take effect is specified in the notification, it shall take effect upon the expiration of such longer period after receipt of the notification by the Depositary.
3. Notwithstanding the previous paragraphs, this Convention shall continue to apply, as if no such subsequent declarations had been made, in respect of all rights and interests arising prior to the effective date of any such subsequent declaration.
Article 58
Withdrawal of declarations
1. Any State Party having made a declaration under this Convention, other than a declaration authorised under Article 60, may withdraw it at any time by notifying the Depositary.
Such withdrawal is to take effect on the first day of the month following the expiration of six months after the date of receipt of the notification by the Depositary.
2. Notwithstanding the previous paragraph, this Convention shall continue to apply, as if no such withdrawal of declaration had been made, in respect of all rights and interests arising prior to the effective date of any such withdrawal.
Article 59
Denunciations
1. Any State Party may denounce this Convention by notification in writing to the Depositary.
2. Any such denunciation shall take effect on the first day of the month following the expiration of twelve months after the date on which notification is received by the Depositary.
3. Notwithstanding the previous paragraphs, this Convention shall continue to apply, as if no such denunciation had been made, in respect of all rights and interests arising prior to the effective date of any such denunciation.
Article 60
Transitional provisions
1. Unless otherwise declared by a Contracting State at any time, the Convention does not apply to a pre-existing right or interest, which retains the priority it enjoyed under the applicable law before the effective date of this Convention.
2. For the purposes of Article 1(v) and of determining priority under this Convention:
a) "effective date of this Convention" means in relation to a debtor the time when this Convention enters into force or the time when the State in which the debtor is situated becomes a Contracting State, whichever is the later; and
b) the debtor is situated in a State where it has its centre of administration or, if it has no centre of administration, its place of business or, if it has more than one place of business, its principal place of business or, if it has no place of business, its habitual residence.
3. A Contracting State may in its declaration under paragraph 1 specify a date, not earlier than three years after the date on which the declaration becomes effective, when this Convention and the Protocol will become applicable, for the purpose of determining priority, including the protection of any existing priority, to pre-existing rights or interests arising under an agreement made at a time when the debtor was situated in a State referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of the preceding paragraph but only to the extent and in the manner specified in its declaration.
Article 61
Review Conferences, amendments and related matters
1. The Depositary shall prepare reports yearly or at such other time as the circumstances may require for the States Parties as to the manner in which the international regimen established in this Convention has operated in practice. In preparing such reports, the Depositary shall take into account the reports of the Supervisory Authority concerning the functioning of the international registration system.
2. At the request of not less than twenty-five per cent of the States Parties, Review Conferences of States Parties shall be convened from time to time by the Depositary, in consultation with the Supervisory Authority, to consider:
a) the practical operation of this Convention and its effectiveness in facilitating the asset-based financing and leasing of the objects covered by its terms;
b) the judicial interpretation given to, and the application made of the terms of this Convention and the regulations;
c) the functioning of the international registration system, the performance of the Registrar and its oversight by the Supervisory Authority, taking into account the reports of the Supervisory Authority; and
d) whether any modifications to this Convention or the arrangements relating to the International Registry are desirable.
3. Subject to paragraph 4, any amendment to this Convention shall be approved by at least a two-thirds majority of States Parties participating in the Conference referred to in the preceding paragraph and shall then enter into force in respect of States which have ratified, accepted or approved such amendment when ratified, accepted, or approved by three States in accordance with the provisions of Article 49 relating to its entry into force.
4. here the proposed amendment to this Convention is intended to apply to more than one category of equipment, such amendment shall also be approved by at least a two-thirds majority of States Parties to each Protocol that are participating in the Conference referred to in paragraph 2.
Article 62
Depositary and its functions
1. Instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession shall be deposited with the International Institute for the Unification of Private Law (UNIDROIT), which is hereby designated the Depositary.
2. The Depositary shall:
a) inform all Contracting States of:
(i) each new signature or deposit of an instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, together with the date thereof;
(ii) the date of entry into force of this Convention;
(iii) each declaration made in accordance with this Convention, together with the date thereof;
(iv) the withdrawal or amendment of any declaration, together with the date thereof; and
(v) the notification of any denunciation of this Convention together with the date thereof and the date on which it takes effect;
b) transmit certified true copies of this Convention to all Contracting States;
c) provide the Supervisory Authority and the Registrar with a copy of each instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, together with the date of deposit thereof, of each declaration or withdrawal or amendment of a declaration and of each notification of denunciation, together with the date of notification thereof, so that the information contained therein is easily and fully available; and
d) perform such other functions customary for depositaries.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned Plenipotentiaries, having been duly authorised, have signed this Convention.
DONE at Cape Town, this sixteenth day of November, two thousand and one, in a single original in the English, Arabic, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish languages, all texts being equally authentic, such authenticity to take effect upon verification by the Joint Secretariat of the Conference under the authority of the President of the Conference within ninety days hereof as to the conformity of the texts with one another.
KONVENTION
OM INTERNATIONELLA SÄKERHETSRÄTTER I LÖSA SAKER
DE STATER SOM ÄR PARTER I DENNA KONVENTION,
ÄR MEDVETNA om att förvärv och nyttjande av lösa saker av stort värde eller av särskild ekonomisk betydelse bör kunna finansieras på ett effektivt sätt,
INSER fördelarna med leasing och finansiering mot säkerhet i de aktuella tillgångarna och är angelägna om att underlätta denna typ av transaktioner genom att fastställa tydliga regler för desamma,
ÄR MEDVETNA om behovet av att se till att säkerhetsrätten i sådana lösa saker erkänns och skyddas globalt,
VILL se till att alla berörda parter åtnjuter ömsesidig ekonomisk nytta,
ÄR ÖVERTYGADE om att det är nödvändigt att det i reglerna tas hänsyn till de principer som ligger till grund för leasing och finansiering med de aktuella tillgångarna som säkerhet, och att principen gällande parternas oberoende respekteras,
ÄR MEDVETNA om att ett särskilt juridiskt ramverk bör fastställas för internationella säkerhetsrätter i sådana lösa saker och att ett internationellt registreringssystem bör bildas för att skydda dessa säkerhetsrätter,
HAR MED HÄNSYN TILL syftena och principerna i de gällande konventionerna om flyttbara objekt,
ENATS om följande bestämmelser:
Kapitel I
Tillämpningsområde och allmänna bestämmelser
Artikel 1
Definitioner
Om inte annat framgår av sammanhanget avses i denna konvention (Konventionen) med:
a) avtal: pantavtal, avtal med äganderättsförbehåll eller leasingavtal;
b) överlåtelse: en överenskommelse som innebär att förvärvaren, antingen som en säkerhet för en förpliktelse eller i annat fall, erhåller tillhörande rättigheter, med eller utan överföring av den internationella säkerhetsrätten;
c) tillhörande rättigheter: rätt till betalning eller till annan prestation av en gäldenär enligt ett avtal säkerställt med eller som avser objektet;
d) inledande av insolvensförfaranden: den tidpunkt då insolvensförfaranden ska anses ha inletts enligt tillämplig insolvenslagstiftning;
e) köpare med förbehåll: köpare enligt ett avtal med äganderättsförbehåll;
f) säljare med förbehåll: säljare enligt ett avtal med äganderättsförbehåll;
g) försäljningsavtal: annan överenskommelse om försäljning av objekt, av en säljare till en köpare, än ett sådant avtal som avses i a ovan;
h) domstol: en domstol i, eller en skiljenämnd som tillsatts av, en fördragsslutande stat;
i) borgenär: en säkerhetshavare enligt ett pantavtal, en säljare med äganderättsförbehåll eller en leasegivare enligt ett leasingavtal;
j) gäldenär: säkerhetsställare enligt ett pantavtal, en köpare enligt ett avtal med äganderättsförbehåll, en leasetagare enligt ett leasingavtal, eller en person vars rätt till visst objekt är belastad av en registreringsbar legal rättighet eller säkerhetsrätt;
k) insolvensförvaltare: person med bemyndigande att handlägga rekonstruktion eller likvidation, även om vederbörande är utsedd interimistiskt, omfattande även en gäldenär som är i besittning av det aktuella objektet, förutsatt att detta är förenligt med den tilllämpliga insolvenslagstiftningen;
l) insolvensförfaranden: konkurs, likvidation eller andra rättsliga eller administrativa förfaranden, innefattande även interimistiska förfaranden, varvid gäldenärens tillgångar och rörelse kontrolleras eller övervakas av en domstol för rekonstruktion eller likvidation;
m) berörda personer:
(i) gäldenären;
(ii) envar som för att säkerställa rätta fullgörandet av förpliktelse gentemot borgenären gått i borgen, ställt eller låtit utfärda en garanti, ett letter of credit, eller varje annan form av kreditförsäkring;
(iii) varje annan person med någon form av rätt i objektet;
n) intern transaktion: transaktion av sådan typ som avses i artikel 2(2)(a) till (c), förutsatt att centrum för de huvudsakliga intressena för samtliga parter i transaktionen finns i samma fördragsslutande stat när avtalets ingås, samt att även objektet (som ska anses finnas i den stat som följer av protokollets bestämmelser) finns i staten vid nämnda tillfälle, och den säkerhetsrätt som uppkommer genom transaktionen har skrivits in i ett nationellt register i staten, och staten har avgett en förklaring enligt artikel 50(1);
o) internationell säkerhetsrätt: en säkerhetsrätt som omfattas av artikel 2 och som innehas av en borgenär;
p) internationellt register: det internationella register som inrättas för tilllämpning av Konventionen eller för protokollet;
q) leasingavtal: avtal som innebär att en person
(leasegivaren) upplåter besittnings- eller nyttjanderätt till objektet (med eller utan köpoption) till en annan person
(leasetagaren) mot erläggande av hyra eller annan form av ersättning;
r) nationell säkerhetsrätt: en säkerhetsrätt avseende objektet, vilken uppkommit genom en intern transaktion som omfattas av en förklaring enligt artikel 50(1);
s) legal rättighet eller säkerhetsrätt: rättighet eller säkerhetsrätt som följer direkt av lag i en fördragsslutande stat som avgett förklaring enligt artikel 39, till säkerhet för rätta fullgörandet av en förpliktelse, innefattande förpliktelser gentemot en stat, ett statligt organ eller en mellanstatlig eller privat organisation;
t) meddelande om nationell säkerhetsrätt: meddelande om att en nationell säkerhetsrätt har bildats, vilket har registrerats eller ska registreras i det internationella registret;
u) objekt: objekt som tillhör en av de kategorier som omfattas av bestämmelserna i artikel 2;
v) redan befintlig rättighet eller säkerhetsrätt: en rättighet eller säkerhetsrätt, oavsett typ, till objektet vilken bildats eller uppkommit före den dag då Konventionen träder ikraft enligt artikel 60(2)(a);
w) ersättning: gottgörelse i form av pengar, eller i annan form, för visst objekt, till följd av att denna helt eller delvis förlorats eller förstörts, helt eller delvis förverkats, beslagtagits, eller exproprierats;
x) framtida överlåtelse: överlåtelse som ska genomföras först efter det att en viss åtgärd vidtagits eller viss händelse inträffat, oavsett om det är klart att åtgärden kommer att vidtas eller händelse kommer att inträffa;
y) framtida internationell säkerhetsrätt: internationell säkerhetsrätt som ska upplåtas i visst objekt först efter det att en viss åtgärd vidtagits eller viss händelse inträffat
(vilket kan innefatta en borgenärs förvärv av objektet), oavsett om det är klart att åtgärden kommer att vidtas eller händelse kommer att inträffa;
z) framtida försäljning: försäljning som ska genomföras först efter det att en åtgärd vidtagits eller viss händelse inträffat, oavsett om det är klart att åtgärden kommer att vidtas eller händelse kommer att inträffa;
aa) protokoll: protokollet för respektive kategori av tillgångar och tillhörande rättigheter, som omfattas av Konventionen;
bb) registrerat: registrerat i det internationella registret enligt kapitel V;
cc) registrerad säkerhetsrätt: en internationell säkerhetsrätt, en registreringsbar legal rätt eller säkerhetsrätt eller en nationell säkerhetsrätt som angivits i ett meddelande om nationell säkerhetsrätt och registrerats enligt kapitel V;
dd) registreringsbar legal rätt eller säkerhetsrätt: legal rätt eller säkerhetsrätt som kan registreras enligt en förklaring som deponerats i enlighet med artikel 40;
ee) registrator: gällande protokollet, den person eller det organ som avses i respektive protokoll, eller utses med stöd av artikel 17(2)(b);
ff) regelverk: det regelverk som tillsynsmyndigheten fastställer eller godkänner enligt respektive protokoll;
gg) försäljning: övergång av äganderätten till objektet enligt ett försäljningsavtal;
hh) säkerställd förpliktelse: förpliktelse för vilken säkerhetsrätt ställts;
ii) pantavtal: avtal enligt vilket en gäldenär upplåter eller förbinder sig att upplåta en rätt (innefattande även äganderätt) till visst objekt till en borgenär för att säkerställa rätta fullgörandet av gäldenärens, eller annan persons, existerande eller framtida förpliktelser;
jj) panträtt: en säkerhetsrätt som uppkommit genom ett pantavtal;
kk) tillsynsmyndighet: gällande respektive protokoll, den tillsynsmyndighet som avses i artikel 17(1);
ll) avtal med äganderättsförbehåll: försäljningsavtal som rör visst objekt och innebär att äganderätten inte övergår förrän villkoren i avtalet uppfyllts;
mm) icke registrerad säkerhetsrätt: konventionell säkerhetsrätt eller legal rätt eller säkerhetsrätt (med undantag av säkerhetsrätt eller rätt som avses i artikel 39)
vilken inte registrerats, oavsett om detta är möjligt eller inte enligt Konvention; och
nn) skriftligt: uppgifter (inklusive uppgifter som meddelats genom teletransmission) som presenteras i skriftlig form eller i en annan form som kan omvandlas till skriftlig form vid senare tillfälle, av vilka skäligen framgår att en person godkänt uppgifterna.
Artikel 2
Den internationella säkerhetsrätten
1. Genom Konventionen inrättas en ordning för uppkomsten av en internationell säkerhetsrätt i vissa kategorier av lösa saker och tillhörande rättigheter, och regleras rättsverkningarna av dessa säkerhetsrätter.
2. I Konventionen avses med en internationell säkerhetsrätt i lösa saker, en säkerhetsrätt som uppkommit enligt artikel 7, i en viss identifierbar tillgång av sådant slag som nämns i punkt 3 och omfattas av det aktuella protokollet förutsatt att säkerheten:
a) ställts av en säkerhetsställare enligt ett pantavtal,
b) innehas av en person som är säljare enligt ett avtal med äganderättsförbehåll, eller
c) innehas av en person som är leasegivare enligt ett leasingavtal.
En säkerhetsrätt som omfattas av led (a) i denna punkt kan inte samtidigt omfattas av led (b) eller led (c).
3. De kategorier som avses i de föregående styckena är:
a) luftfartygsskrov, flygmotorer och helikoptrar;
b) rulllande järnvägsmateriel;och
c) rymdobjekt.
4. Frågan om en säkerhetsrätt enligt punkten 2 omfattas av led (a), (b) eller (c) ska fastställas enligt tillämplig lag.
5. En internationell säkerhetsrätt avseende objektet omfattar även avkastning av detta objekt.
Artikel 3
Tillämpningsområde
1. Konventionen är tillämplig när gäldenären befinner sig i en fördragsslutande stat vid tidpunkten för ingåendet av det avtal varigenom den internationella säkerhetsrätten uppkommer.
2. Konventionen är tillämplig även om borgenären befinner sig i en icke fördragsslutande stat.
Artikel 4
Gäldenärens uppehållsort
1. I fråga om artikel 3 (1) ska gäldenären anses befinna sig i den fördragsslutande stat
a) i vilken gäldenären har bildats,
b) i vilken gäldenären har sin registrerade adress eller sitt säte,
c) i vilken gäldenärens huvudkontor ligger, eller
d) i vilken gäldenärens driftställe ligger.
2. Med driftställe enligt led (d) i föregående stycke avses, i det fall gäldenären har mer än ett driftställe, dennes huvudsakliga driftställe, eller, om driftställe saknas, dennes hemvist.
Artikel 5
Tolkning och tillämplig lag
1. Vid tolkning av Konventionen ska hänsyn tas till dess syften såsom dessa kommer till uttryck i ingressen, dess internationella karaktär och nödvändigheten av att främja enhetlighet och förutsägbarhet vid tillämpningen.
2. Frågor inom det område som regleras i Konventionen, vilka inte uttryckligen avgörs enligt texten, ska regleras enligt de allmänna principer som ligger till grund för Konventionen eller, i annat fall, i enlighet med tillämplig lag.
3. Med hänvisning till tillämplig lag avses den nationella lag som ska tillämpas enligt den internationella privaträtten i den stat där talan väckts (of the forum state).
4. Om en stat omfattar flera territoriella områden, vilka har egna regelverk för den fråga som ska prövas, och om det saknas uppgift om relevant territoriellt område, ska rätten i den aktuella staten tillämpas för att avgöra vilket territoriellt områdes bestämmelser som ska tilllämpas. Om sådana bestämmelser saknas, ska rätten i det territoriella område som har närmast anknytning till ärendet tillämpas.
Artikel 6
Förhållandet mellan Konventionen och protokollet
1. Konventionen och protokollet ska läsas och tolkas som ett instrument.
2. I fall där Konventionen och protokollet är inbördes oförenliga ska protokollet äga företräde.
Kapitel II
Den internationella säkerhetsrättens beskaffenhet
Artikel 7
Formkrav
En säkerhetsrätt utgör en internationell säkerhetsrätt enligt Konventionen, om det avtal av vilket säkerhetsrätten följer, eller i vilket säkerhetsrätten föreskrivs,
a) ingås skriftligen;
b) avser objekt över vilken säkerhetsställaren, säljaren med äganderättsförbehåll eller leasegivaren har möjlighet att förfoga över;
c) identifierar objektet, i enlighet med protokollets bestämmelser; och
d) om avtalet är ett pantavtal, gör det möjligt att fastställa de säkerställda förpliktelserna utan att det är nödvändigt att fastställa ett visst belopp, eller det högsta belopp som säkerställts.
Kapitel III
Åtgärder vid avtalsbrott
Artikel 8
Åtgärder som säkerhetshavare får vidta
1. Vid avtalsbrott enligt artikel 11, får säkerhetshavaren, förutsatt att säkerhetsställaren lämnat samtycke, och med förbehåll för förklaring som en fördragsslutande stat får avge enligt artikel 54, vidta en eller flera av följande åtgärder:
a) ta pantsatt objekt i besittning eller ta kontroll över det;
b) sälja eller leasa ut sådant objekt;
c) tillgodogöra sig all form av inkomst eller avkastning som följer av förvaltningen eller nyttjandet av objektet.
2. Alternativt kan säkerhetshavaren begära att en domstol ska tillåta eller besluta att någon av åtgärderna enligt föregående punkt får eller ska vidtas.
3. Alla åtgärder som föreskrivs i punkt 1 (a) (b) och (c)
eller i artikel 13 ska vidtas på ett affärsmässigt skäligt sätt. En åtgärd ska anses ha vidtagits på ett affärsmässigt skäligt sätt om åtgärden har vidtagits i enlighet med bestämmelserna i säkerhetsavtalet, såvida inte bestämmelsen är uppenbart oskälig.
4. Säkerhetshavare som avser att sälja eller leasa ut objektet enligt punkt 1, ska i skälig tid skriftligen meddela detta till:
a) berörda personer enligt artikel 1(m) (i) och (ii); och
b) berörda personer enligt artikel 1(m)(iii) vilka i skälig tid före försäljningen eller leasingen har underrättat säkerhetshavaren om sina rättigheter.
5. De belopp säkerhetshavaren erhåller genom någon åtgärd som föreskrivs i punkterna 1 eller 2, ska användas för att täcka de säkerställda förpliktelserna.
6. Om de belopp som säkerhetshavaren erhåller till följd av någon åtgärd som föreskrivs i punkterna 1 eller 2 överstiger det belopp som säkerställts och de skäliga kostnader som någon av dessa åtgärder skäligen medför, och om inte domstolen föreskriver annat, ska säkerhetshavaren fördela överskottet i företrädesordning bland innehavare av säkerhetsrätter med sämre prioritet som antingen har registrerats, eller som säkerhetshavaren har underrättats om, och betala eventuell återstod till säkerhetsställaren.
Artikel 9
Övergång av äganderätt som gottgörelse; inlösen
1. Säkerhetshavaren och samtliga berörda personer får när som helst efter det att avtalsbrott enligt artikel 11 har inträffat, avtala om att äganderätten till säkerställt objekt
(eller annan rätt som säkerhetsställaren har till objektet)
ska övergå till säkerhetshavaren som gottgörelse, helt eller delvis, för de säkerställda förpliktelserna.
2. Domstolen får, efter framställan från säkerhetshavaren, besluta att äganderätten till säkerställt objekt (eller annan rätt som säkerhetsställaren har till objektet) ska övergå till säkerhetshavaren som gottgörelse, helt eller delvis, för de säkerställda förpliktelserna.
3. Domstolen ska bifalla säkerhetshavarens framställan enligt föregående punkt endast om storleken av de säkerställda förpliktelserna står i proportion till objektets värde, varvid hänsyn ska tas även till betalning som säkerhetshavaren ska göra till någon av de berörda personerna.
4. Säkerhetsställaren jämte varje berörd person äger rätt att, när som helst efter det att avtalsbrott inträffat enligt artikel 11, men före försäljning av den säkerställda tillgången och innan beslut enligt punkt 2 meddelats, få säkerheten frisläppt genom att betala de säkerställda beloppen. Detta gäller inte när säkerhetshavaren träffat leasingavtal enligt artikel 8(1)(b), eller när domstol beslutat om säkerhetshavarens rätt att leasa ut objektet enligt artikel 8(2). Om annan berörd person än säkerhetsställaren efter avtalsbrottet erlägger det säkerställda beloppet i dess helhet, inträder denne i säkerhetshavarens rätt.
5. Äganderätt eller annan rättighet eller säkerhetsrätt som säkerhetsställaren har som övergår genom försäljning enligt artikel 8(1)(b), eller i enlighet med punkterna 1 eller 2 i denna artikel, ska inte vara belastad med andra rättigheter eller säkerhetsrätter än de som säkerhetshavarens säkerhetsrätt hade prioritet över enligt bestämmelserna i artikel 29.
Artikel 10
Åtgärder som får vidtas av säljare med äganderättsförbehåll eller leasegivare
1. Vid avtalsbrott enligt artikel 11 rörande avtal med äganderättsförbehåll eller leasingavtal, får säljaren med äganderättsförbehåll, respektive leasegivaren:
a) med förbehåll för eventuell förklaring som en fördragsslutande stat kan avge enligt artikel 54, häva avtalet och ta objektet i besittning eller fritt förfoga över objektet; eller
b) begära att en domstol ska tilllåta eller besluta om någon av ovanstående åtgärder.
Artikel 11
Begreppet avtalsbrott
1. Borgenären och gäldenären får när som helst skriftligen komma överens om omständigheter som innebär avtalsbrott, eller om annan omständighet vid vilken rättigheterna och åtgärderna i artiklarna 8 till 10 och artikel 13 ska vara tillämpliga.
2. Om sådan överenskommelse saknas, ska begreppet avtalsbrott i fråga om artiklarna 8 till 10 och artikel 13 avse avtalsbrott varigenom borgenären i väsentlig utsträckning berövas det borgenären rätteligen kan förvänta att avtalet ger borgenären rätt till.
Artikel 12
I övrigt tillgängliga åtgärder
Övriga åtgärder som är tillåtna enligt den tilllämpliga lagen, inklusive åtgärder som parterna har kommit överens om, får vidtas såvida de inte är oförenliga med kapitlets tvingande bestämmelserna vilka anges i artikel 15.
Artikel 13
Interimistiska åtgärder
1. Med förbehåll för eventuella förklaringar som kan avges enligt artikel 55, ska varje fördragsslutande stat sörja för att en borgenär, som kan styrka att gäldenären inte har fullgjort sina skyldigheter, i avvaktan på slutlig prövning av borgenärens krav och förutsatt att gäldenären vid något tillfälle lämnat sitt samtycke härtill, skyndsamt ska kunna utverka beslut från en domstol om en eller flera av följande åtgärder om de begärs av borgenären:
a) åtgärder i avsikt att bevara objektet och dess värde;
b) rätt för borgenären att ta objektet i besittning, eller ta kontroll över, eller låta förvara objektet;
c) kvarhållande av objektet;
d) leasing eller, utom i de fall som avses i led (a) till (c)
ovan, ta kontroll över förvaltningen av, jämte inkomsterna och avkastningen från, objektet.
2. Domstolen får när beslut fattas om åtgärder enligt föregående punkt, även besluta om villkor som domstolen bedömer nödvändiga för att skydda de berörda personerna för det fall borgenären:
a) när dessa åtgärder verkställs, underlåter att fullgöra någon av sina förpliktelser enligt Konventionen eller protokollet gentemot gäldenären; eller
b) helt eller delvis inte kan styrka sitt anspråk, när sakfrågan avgörs slutligt.
3. Innan domstolen beslutar om åtgärder enligt punkt 1 får domstolen kräva att berörda personer underrättas om framställan.
4. Bestämmelserna i denna artikel ska inte påverka tillämpningen av artikel 8(3) eller begränsa domstolens befogenhet att besluta om andra interimistiska åtgärder än de som anges i punkt 1.
Artikel 14
Förfarandekrav
Med förbehåll för artikel 54(2), ska de åtgärder som föreskrivs i detta kapitel vidtas i enlighet med de processuella bestämmelser som gäller enligt lagen på den plats där åtgärderna ska vidtas.
Artikel 15
Undantag
Två eller flera parter som berörs av bestämmelserna i detta kapitel kan när som helst skriftligen komma överens om undantag från någon av de föregående bestämmelserna eller ändra verkningarna av dessa, med undantag för artiklarna 8(3)
till (6), 9(3) och (4), 13(2) samt 14.
Kapitel IV
Det internationella registreringssystemet
Artikel 16
Det internationella registret
1. Ett internationellt register ska inrättas för registrering av:
a) internationella säkerhetsrätter, framtida internationella säkerhetsrätter och registreringsbara legala rättigheter
b) överlåtelser och framtida överlåtelser av internationella säkerhetsrätter;
c) förvärv av internationella säkerhetsrätter till följd av lag- eller avtalsenlig subrogation enligt tillämplig lag;
d) meddelanden om nationella säkerhetsrätter; och
e) efterställande av sådana säkerhetsrätter som avses ovan.
2. Skilda internationella register får inrättas för de olika kategorierna av objekt och för tillhörande rättigheter.
3. I detta kapitel och kapitel V avses med registrering även ändring, utvidgning eller upphävande av en registrering, beroende på sammanhanget.
Artikel 17
Tillsynsmyndigheten och registratorn
1. En tillsynsmyndighet ska utses i enlighet med protokollet.
2. Tillsynsmyndigheten ska:
a) upprätta, eller låta upprätta, det internationella registret;
b) med förbehåll för protokollets bestämmelser, tillsätta och avsätta registratorn;
c) sörja för att de rättigheter som krävs för en effektiv drift av det internationella registret vid byte av registrator, kan överföras eller överlåtas till den nya registratorn;
d) efter samråd med de fördragsslutande staterna och med tillämpning av protokollet utarbeta eller godkänna ett regelverk avseende driften av det internationella registret, och sörja för att regelverket offentliggörs;
e) fastställa administrativt förfarande vid tillsynsmyndigheten, för handläggning av klagomål som rör driften av det internationella registret;
f) utöva tillsyn över registratorns verksamhet och driften av det internationella registret;
g) på begäran av registratorn, ge registratorn direktiv som tillsynsmyndigheten anser lämpliga;
h) fastställa och regelbundet se över avgiftsstrukturen för det internationella registrets tjänster;
i) vidta nödvändiga åtgärder för att tillse att ett effektivt elektroniskt system för registrering av säkerhetsrätter existerar, för förverkligande av Konventionens och protokollets syften; och
j) med jämna mellanrum rapportera till de fördragsslutande staterna hur myndigheten fullgör sina skyldigheter enligt Konventionen och protokollet.
3. Tillsynsmyndigheten får ingå de avtal som krävs för utförande av dess uppgifter, bland annat de avtal som avses i artikel 27(3).
4. Tillsynsmyndigheten ska ha full äganderätt till det internationella registrets databaser och arkiv.
5. Registratorn ska säkerställa en effektiv drift av det internationella registret och utföra de uppgifter som myndigheten har ålagts i Konventionen, protokollet och regelverket.
Kapitel V
Övriga frågor avseende registrering
Artikel 18
Villkor för registrering
1. Protokollet och regelverket ska innehålla villkor, bland annat kriterierna för identifiering av objektet, för:
a) registreringen (innefattande villkor för hur samtycke ska kunna lämnas i förtid på elektronisk väg, när så krävs enligt artikel 20);
b) sökningar och utfärdandet av sökningsintyg; och,
c) att säkerställa att uppgifter och dokument i det internationella registret, med undantag av uppgifter och dokument som rör en registrering, omfattas av sekretess.
2. Registratorn är inte skyldig att kontrollera huruvida samtycke till registrering faktiskt har lämnats eller är giltigt enligt artikel 20.
3. När en framtida internationell säkerhetsrätt övergår till att bli en internationell säkerhetsrätt, krävs ingen annan registrering, förutsatt att uppgifterna om registreringen är tillräckliga för att medge registreringen som en internationell säkerhetsrätt.
4. Registratorn ska sörja för att registreringarna införs i det internationella registrets databaser och är sökbara i kronologisk ordning efter mottagandet, samt att datum och klockslag för mottagandet införs i akten.
5. I protokollet får föreskrivas att en fördragsslutande stat på sitt territorium får utse ett eller flera organ till kontaktpunkter vilka ska ha till uppgift att översända de uppgifter som krävs för registrering till det internationella registret. En fördragsslutande stat som utser en kontaktpunkt får ange vilka villkor som ska vara uppfyllda innan uppgifterna översänds till det internationella registret.
Artikel 19
Registreringens giltighet och tidpunkt för registrering
1. För att en registrering ska vara giltig måste den göras enligt bestämmelserna i artikel 20.
2. En registrering, förutsatt att den är giltig, är fullständig när de föreskrivna uppgifterna har förts in i det internationella registrets databaser så att den kan bli sökbar.
3. En registrering är sökbar när:
a) registreringen har tilldelats ett aktlöpnummer i det internationella registret, och
b) informationen som har registrerats, innefattande aktlöpnumret, har lagrats i beständig form och är tillgänglig i det internationella registret.
4. Om en säkerhetsrätt som först har registrerats som en framtida internationell säkerhetsrätt blir en internationell säkerhetsrätt, ska den internationella säkerhetsrätten behandlas som om den registrerades vid tidpunkten för registreringen av den framtida internationella säkerhetsrätten, förutsatt att den registreringen fortfarande var gällande omedelbart innan den internationella säkerhetsrätten bildades enligt artikel 7.
5. Föregående punkt ska tilllämpas, med vederbörliga justeringar, vid registreringen av en framtida överlåtelse av en internationell säkerhetsrätt.
6. En registrering ska vara sökbar i det internationella registrets databas i enlighet med de villkor som anges i protokollet.
Artikel 20
Samtycke till registrering
1. En internationell säkerhetsrätt, en framtida internationell säkerhetsrätt eller en överlåtelse eller en framtida överlåtelse av en internationell säkerhetsrätt får registreras, och registreringen får ändras eller förlängas innan den har gått ut, av endera parten med motpartens skriftliga samtycke.
2. Efterställandet av en internationell säkerhetsrätt till förmån för en annan internationell säkerhetsrätt, kan registreras av den person vars säkerhetsrätt har efterställts, eller med dennes skriftliga samtycke.
3. En registrering får avregistreras av den till vars förmån registreringen har gjorts, eller med dennes skriftliga samtycke.
4. Förvärvet av en internationell säkerhetsrätt genom lag-
eller avtalsenlig subrogation får registreras av den som övertar säkerhetsrätten eller rätten.
5. En registreringsbar legal rättighet eller säkerhetsrätt får registreras av innehavaren.
6. Ett meddelande om en nationell säkerhetsrätt får registreras av innehavaren av säkerhetsrätten.
Artikel 21
Registreringens giltighetstid
Registrering av en internationell säkerhetsrätt är giltig till dess den avregistreras eller tills den giltighetstid som anges i registreringen har löpt ut.
Artikel 22
Sökningar
1. Var person får på elektronisk väg, enligt de närmare föreskrifterna i protokollet och regelverket, söka eller begära en sökning i det internationella registret avseende säkerhetsrätter eller framtida internationella säkerhetsrätter som finns registrerade där.
2. När registratorn tar emot en begäran om sökning avseende objekt ska den, enligt de närmare föreskrifterna i protokollet och regelverket, på elektronisk väg utfärda ett intyg om sökning i registret;
a) som ska innehålla samtliga registrerade uppgifter om objektet samt en uppgift om datum och klockslag för registreringen av uppgifterna; eller
b) som intygar att uppgifter om objektet saknas i det internationella registret.
3. Ett intyg om sökning som har utfärdats enligt föregående punkt ska ange att den borgenär som anges i registreringsinformationen har förvärvat eller avser att förvärva en internationell säkerhetsrätt i objektet, men ska inte ange huruvida registreringen avser en internationell säkerhetsrätt eller en framtida internationell säkerhetsrätt, även om detta kan avgöras med ledning av registrerade uppgifter.
Artikel 23
Förteckning över förklaringar och legala rättigheter eller säkerhetsrätter
Registratorn ska upprätta en förteckning över förklaringar, återkallanden av förklaringar samt kategorier av legala rättigheter eller säkerhetsrätter som har anmälts till myndigheten av depositarien så som de har avgetts av de fördragsslutande staterna i enlighet med artiklarna 39 och 40, med datum för varje förklaring eller återkallande av förklaring. Denna förteckning ska registreras och göras sökbar efter namnet på den stat som har avgett förklaringen, och ska hållas tillgänglig på begäran, enligt närmare föreskrifter i protokollet och regelverket, till var och en som begär den.
Artikel 24
Bevisvärde av intyg
Ett dokument som uppfyller formkraven enligt regelverket och uppges vara ett intyg utfärdat av det internationella registret, är bevis:
a) för att det har utfärdats av det internationella registret; och
b) för de uppgifter som anges i det, inklusive datum och klockslag för registreringen.
Artikel 25
Upphävande av registrering
1. När de förpliktelser som säkerställts genom en registrerad säkerhetsrätt eller de förpliktelser som gett upphov till en registrerad legal rättighet eller säkerhetsrätt har fullgjorts, eller när villkoren för äganderättens övergång enligt ett avtal med äganderättsförbehåll har uppfyllts, ska innehavaren av säkerhetsrätten utan dröjsmål, vidta åtgärder för att upphäva registreringen på gäldenärens skriftliga begäran som lämnats till eller mottagits på den adress som anges i registreringen.
2. När en framtida internationell säkerhetsrätt eller en framtida överlåtelse av en internationell säkerhetsrätt har registrerats, ska den framtida borgenären eller förvärvaren utan dröjsmål vidta åtgärder för att upphäva registreringen på den framtida gäldenärens eller överlåtarens skriftliga begäran som lämnats till eller mottagits på den adress som anges i registreringen, om sådan begäran framförs innan den framtida borgenären eller förvärvaren utgivit det som ska säkerställas, eller förbundit sig att göra det.
3. Om de förpliktelser som säkerställts genom en nationell säkerhetsrätt och som beskrivs närmare i ett registrerat meddelande om nationell säkerhetsrätt har fullgjorts, ska innehavaren av denna säkerhetsrätt utan dröjsmål vidta åtgärder för att upphäva registreringen på gäldenärens skriftliga begäran som lämnats till eller mottagits på den adress som anges i registreringen.
4. Om en registrering inte borde ha gjorts, eller om den är felaktig, ska den person till vars förmån registreringen gjorts utan dröjsmål vidta åtgärder för att upphäva eller ändra registreringen på gäldenärens skriftliga begäran som lämnats till eller mottagits på den adress som anges i registreringen.
Artikel 26
Tillgång till det internationella registret
Ingen person får vägras tillgång till det internationella registrets registrerings- eller söktjänster såvida inte personen har underlåtit att följa villkoren som anges i detta kapitel.
Kapitel VI
Tillsynsmyndighetens och registratorns privilegier och immunitet
Artikel 27
Juridisk person och immunitet
1. Tillsynsmyndigheten ska åtnjuta status som internationell juridisk person om den inte redan har det.
2. Tillsynsmyndigheten, dess ledning och anställda ska åtnjuta den immunitet mot rättsliga och administrativa åtgärder som framgår av protokollets bestämmelser.
3. a) Tillsynsmyndigheten ska åtnjuta skattebefrielse och andra sådana privilegier som framgår av avtalet med värdstaten.
b) I denna punkt avses med "värdstat", den stat där tillsynsmyndigheten är belägen.
4. Tillgångar, handlingar, databaser och arkiv som tillhör det internationella registret ska vara okränkbara och immuna mot beslag och andra rättsliga eller administrativa åtgärder.
5. Den som väcker talan mot registratorn enligt artikel 28(1)
eller artikel 44, ska ha rätt att få tillgång till sådana uppgifter och handlingar som krävs för att föra talan.
6. Tillsynsmyndigheten får häva den okränkbarhet och immunitet som anges i punkt 4.
Kapitel VII
Registratorns ansvar
Artikel 28
Ansvar och ekonomiska försäkringar
1. Registratorn ska vara skyldig att utge kompensation för skada som en person åsamkas, om skadan är en direkt följd av fel eller försummelse av registratorn, dess ledning eller anställda, eller brister i det internationella registreringssystemet, såvida inte bristerna har uppkommit genom en oundviklig händelse som det inte går att skydda sig emot, och som inte kunnat förebyggas genom bästa allmänt tillämpade praxis i fråga om utformning och drift av elektroniska register, inbegripet praxis för backup och för säkerhets- och nätsystemen.
2. Registratorn ska inte bära ansvar enligt föregående punkt för sakfel i de registreringsuppgifter som den tagit emot eller översänt i den form som de tagits emot. Registratorn ska inte heller bära ansvar för åtgärder eller omständigheter som varken den, dess ledning eller anställda orsakar, och som förelåg innan uppgifterna om registrering i det internationella registret togs emot.
3. Kompensation enligt punkt 1 kan reduceras i den utsträckning som den skadelidande har vållat eller bidragit till skadan.
4. Registratorn ska teckna försäkring eller förse sig med en garanti som täcker det ansvar som föreskrivs i denna artikel, i den utsträckning som tillsynsmyndigheten fastställer enligt bestämmelserna i protokollet.
Kapitel VIII
Den internationella säkerhetsrättens verkan gentemot tredje man
Artikel 29
Prioritetsordning mellan konkurrerande säkerhetsrätter
1. En registrerad säkerhetsrätt har prioritet framför varje därefter registrerad säkerhetsrätt och varje oregistrerad säkerhetsrätt.
2. Prioriteten för den först nämnda säkerhetsrätten i föregående punkt gäller:
a) även om säkerhetsrätten erhölls eller registrerades med faktisk vetskap om den andra säkerhetsrätten;
b) även vad avser sådant som innehavaren av den först registrerade säkerhetsrätten utgivit, med kännedom om den andra säkerhetsrätten.
3. Köparen av ett objekt förvärvar sin rätt till objektet:
a) belastad med den säkerhetsrätt som var registrerad när objektet förvärvas, och
b) fri från varje icke registrerad säkerhetsrätt, även om köparen har kännedom om sådan säkerhetsrätt.
4. Köparen till ett objekt med äganderättsförbehåll eller leasetagaren förvärvar rättten till objektet:
a) belastad med den säkerhetsrätt som var registrerad före registreringen av den internationella säkerhetsrätten som säljaren med äganderättsförbehåll respektive leasegivaren har; och
b) fri från den säkerhetsrätt som inte var registrerade vid tidpunkten för förvärvet, även om köparen eller leasetagaren hade kännedom om sådan säkerhetsrätt.
5. Prioriteten mellan konkurrerande säkerhetsrätter eller rättigheter enligt denna artikel kan ändras genom avtal mellan innehavarna av sådana säkerhetsrätter, men förvärvaren av en efterställd säkerhetsrätt är inte bunden av ett avtal om efterställning, såvida inte avtalet var registrerat vid tidpunkten för överlåtelsen.
6. Prioritet enligt denna artikel ska även gälla för avkastning från objektet.
7. Konventionen:
a) påverkar inte en persons rätt till ett föremål, annat än objektet, som har installerats i ett objekt, om rätten till föremålet fanns före installationen, förutsatt att rättten till föremålet enligt tilllämplig lag fortsätter att gälla även efter installationen; och
b) utgör inget hinder för uppkomsten av rättigheter i ett föremål, annat än objektet, som tidigare har varit installerade på ett objekt, förutsatt att rätten har uppkommit enligt tillämplig lag.
Artikel 30
Verkan av insolvens
1. I ett insolvensförfarande gentemot gäldenären ska en internationell säkerhetsrätt ge förmånsrätt eller separationsrätt om säkerhetsrätten var registrerad i enlighet med Konventionen innan insolvensförfarandena inleddes.
2. Inget i denna artikel ska påverka förmånsrätten eller separationsrätten för en internationell säkerhetsrätt i ett insolvensförfarande om en sådan rätt ges enligt den tillämpliga lagen.
3. Inget i denna artikel ska påverka:
a) tillämpningen av konkursrättsliga bestämmelser om återvinning i konkurs; eller
b) tillämpningen av processuella bestämmelser gällande verkställighet av bättre rätt till egendom som insolvensförvaltaren kontrollerar eller utövar tillsyn över.
Kapitel IX
Överlåtelse av tillhörande rättigheter och internationella säkerhetsrätter; subrogationsrättigheter
Artikel 31
Verkan av överlåtelse
1. Såvida inte annat har avtalats mellan parterna, ska en överlåtelse av tillhörande rättigheter som gjorts i enlighet med artikel 32, även innebära att det till förvärvaren överlåts:
a) den tillhörande internationella säkerhetsrätten; och
b) samtliga säkerhetsrätter och prioriteringar som överlåtaren har enligt Konventionen.
2. Inget i Konventionen hindar en partiell överlåtelse av överlåtarens tillhörande rättigheter. Vid en sådan partiell överlåtelse är överlåtaren och förvärvaren fria att avtala om sina respektive rättigheter till den internationella säkerhetsrätten som överlåtits enligt föregående punkt, dock inte på ett sådant sätt att gäldenärens ställning försämras utan dennes samtycke.
3. Med förbehåll för punkt 4 ska gäldenärens invändningar och rätt till kvittning gentemot förvärvaren avgöras enligt tillämplig lag.
4. Gäldenären får när som helst skriftligen, helt eller delvis, avsäga sig rätten till invändningar och rätt till kvittning enligt föregående punkt. Detta gäller dock inte invändningar baserade på bedrägligt beteende från förvärvarens sida.
5. Om de tillhörande rättigheterna har överlåtits till säkerhet för en förpliktelse, återgår de till överlåtaren, i den mån de finns kvar, när de förpliktelser som säkerställts genom överlåtelsen fullgjorts.
Artikel 32
Formkrav för överlåtelsen
1. En överlåtelse av tillhörande rättigheter medför överlåtelse av den internationella säkerhetsrätten i objektet endast om:
a) överlåtelsen ingås skriftligen;
b) överlåtelsen möjliggör identifiering av de tillhörande rättigheterna som följer av avtalet; och
c) vid överlåtelse till säkerhet för en förpliktelse, gör det möjligt att i enlighet med protokollet fastställa de förpliktelser som säkerställs genom överlåtelsen, utan att ett belopp eller ett högsta säkra belopp måste anges.
2. En överlåtelse av en internationell säkerhetsrätt som bildats eller föreskrivs i ett pantavtal är inte giltigt om inte alla eller vissa tillhörande rättigheter också överlåts.
3. Konventionen är inte tillämplig på en överlåtelse av tillhörande rättigheter, om inte överlåtelsen tillåter att den aktuella internationella säkerhetsrätten också överlåts.
Artikel 33
Gäldenärens förpliktelser gentemot förvärvaren
1. I den omfattning tillhörande rättigheter och den internationella säkerhetsrätten har överlåtits i enlighet med artiklarna 31 och 32, är gäldenären bunden av överlåtelsen och ska fullgöra de säkerställda förpliktelserna gentemot förvärvaren, om och endast om:
a) gäldenären skriftligen har underrättats om överlåtelsen av, eller på uppdrag av, överlåtaren; och
b) de tillhörande rättigheterna identifieras i underrättelsen.
2. Oberoende av andra grunder till att betalning eller fullgörande av förpliktelser från gäldenärens sida kan ske med befriande verkan, ska gäldenären kunna fullgöra de säkerställda förpliktelserna med befriande verkan om det sker i enlighet med föregående punkt.
3. Inget i denna artikel ska påverka prioritetsordningen mellan konkurrerande överlåtelser.
Artikel 34
Åtgärder vid avtalsbrott i samband med överlåtelse som säkerhet
Om överlåtaren underlåter att fullgöra sina förpliktelser enligt en överlåtelse av tillhörande rättigheter och den aktuella internationella säkerhetsrätten, och överlåtelsen har gjorts till säkerhet för en förpliktelse, är artiklarna 8, 9 samt 11 till 14 tillämpliga på förhållandet mellan överlåtaren och förvärvaren (och, i fråga om tillhörande rättigheter, tillämpliga i den utsträckning som dessa artiklar kan tillämpas på immateriella objekt) som om hänvisning:
a) till den säkerställda förpliktelsen och säkerhetsrätten avsåg den förpliktelse som säkras genom överlåtelsen av de tillhörande rättigheterna och den internationella säkerhetsrätten samt den säkerhetsrätt som har bildas genom överlåtelsen;
b) till säkerhetshavaren eller borgenären och till säkerhetsställaren eller till gäldenären avsåg förvärvare respektive överlåtare;
c) till innehavare av den internationella säkerhetsrätten avsåg förvärvaren; och
d) till objektet avsåg de tillhörande rättigheterna och den aktuella internationella säkerhetsrätten.
Artikel 35
Företrädesordning mellan konkurrerande säkerhetsöverlåtelser
1. Om det finns konkurrerande överlåtelser av tillhörande rättigheter och minst en av överlåtelserna inkluderar den aktuella internationella säkerhetsrätten och är registrerad, ska bestämmelserna i artikel 29 tillämpas som om hänvisning till en registrerad säkerhetsrätt var hänvisning till en överlåtelse av de tillhörande rättigheterna och den aktuella registrerade säkerhetsrätten, och som om hänvisning till en registrerad eller icke registrerad säkerhetsrätt var hänvisning till en registrerad eller icke registrerad överlåtelse.
2. Artikel 30 är tillämplig på en överlåtelse av tillhörande rättigheter som om hänvisning till en internationell säkerhetsrätt var hänvisning till en överlåtelse av de tillhörande rättigheterna och den aktuella internationella säkerhetsrätten.
Artikel 36
Förvärvarens prioritet avseende tillhörande rättigheter
1. Förvärvaren av tillhörande rättigheter och den aktuella internationella säkerhetsrätten, vars förvärv har registrerats, har endast prioritet enligt artikel 35(1)
framför en annan förvärvare av de tillhörande rättigheterna:
a) om avtalet av vilket de tillhörande rättigheterna följer, anger att objektet utgör säkerhet för dem eller är knutet till dem; och
b) om de tillhörande rättigheterna avser ett visst objekt.
2. Gällande (b) i föregående punkt, ska de tillhörande rättigheterna anses avse ett visst objekt endast i den utsträckning de avser rätt till betalning eller fullgörande som hänför sig till:
a) ett belopp som har utbetalats och nyttjats för förvärvet av objektet;
b) ett belopp som har utbetalats och nyttjats för förvärvet av ett annat objekt, i vilket överlåtaren hade en annan internationell säkerhetsrätt, om överlåtaren överförde den säkerhetsrätten till förvärvaren och överlåtelsen har registrerats;
c) köpeskillingen för objektet;
d) hyran för objektet; eller
e) andra förpliktelser som följer av en transaktion enligt denna punkt.
3. I alla andra fall ska företrädesordningen för konkurrerande överlåtelser av tillhörande rättigheter fastställas enligt tillämplig lag.
Artikel 37
Verkan av överlåtarens insolvens
Bestämmelserna i artikel 30 är tilllämpliga på insolvensförfaranden gentemot överlåtaren, som om hänvisning till gäldenär var hänvisning till överlåtaren.
Artikel 38
Subrogation
1. Med förbehåll för punkt 2 ska inget i den här Konventionen påverka förvärvet av tillhörande rättigheter och den aktuella internationella säkerhetsrätten genom lag- eller avtalsenlig subrogation.
2. Prioriteringen mellan en säkerhetsrätt som omfattas av föregående punkt och en konkurrerande säkerhetsrätt kan ändras genom skriftligt avtal mellan innehavarna av de respektive säkerhetsrätterna, men en förvärvare av en efterställd säkerhetsrätt är inte bunden av ett avtal om efterställning, såvida inte efterställningen var registrerad vid tidpunkten för överlåtelsen.
Kapitel X
Rättigheter eller säkerhetsrätter som omfattas av förklaringar från de fördragsslutande staterna
Artikel 39
Rättigheter som har prioritet utan registrering
1. En fördragsslutande stat får när som helst, i en förklaring som ska deponeras hos protokollets depositarie, generellt eller specifikt ange:
a) de kategorier av legala rättigheter eller säkerhetsrätter
(bortsett från rättigheter eller säkerhetsrätter på vilka artikel 40 är tilllämplig) som enligt statens lag har prioritet framför en säkerhetsrätt till ett objekt likvärdig med säkerhetsrätten hos en innehavare av en registrerad internationell säkerhetsrätt, och som ska ha prioritet framför en registrerad internationell säkerhetsrätt, oavsett om det är fråga om insolvensförfarande eller inte; och
b) att inget i den här Konventionen ska påverka rätten för en stat, ett statligt organ, en mellanstatlig organisation eller en privat leverantör av offentliga tjänster att beslagta eller hålla kvar ett objekt enligt statens lagar, för betalning av skuld till sådant organ, organisation eller leverantör, om skulden är direkt hänförlig till de tjänster som tillhandahållits beträffande objektet eller ett annat objekt.
2. En förklaring som avges enligt föregående punkt kan utformas till att omfatta kategorier som uppkommer efter deponeringen av förklaringen.
3. En legal rättighet eller säkerhetsrätt har prioritet framför en internationell säkerhetsrätt om och endast om den legala rättigheten eller säkerhetsrätten tillhör en kategori som omfattas av en förklaring som har deponerats före registreringen av den internationella säkerhetsrätten.
4. Trots föregående punkt får en fördragsslutande stat vid tidpunkten för ratificering, godkännandet eller anslutningen till protokollet, förklara att en rättighet eller säkerhetsrätt i en kategori som omfattas av en förklaring som har avgetts enligt punkt 1 (a) ska ha prioritet framför en internationell säkerhetsrätt som har registrerats före dagen för sådan ratificeringen, godkännandet eller anslutningen.
Artikel 40
Legala rättigheter eller säkerhetsrätter som kan registreras En fördragsslutande stat får när som helst i en förklaring som deponeras hos protokollets depositarie ange de kategorier av legala rättigheter eller säkerhetsrätter i alla kategorier av objekt som ska kunna registreras enligt den här Konventionen som om dessa rättigheter eller säkerhetsrätter var internationella säkerhetsrätter och ska behandlas som sådana. En sådan förklaring kan ändras över tiden.
Kapitel XI
Konventionens tillämpning på försäljning
Artikel 41
Försäljning och framtida försäljning
Den här Konventionen är tillämplig på försäljning eller framtida försäljning av ett objekt i enlighet med protokollets bestämmelser, med de inskränkningar som framgår där.
Kapitel XII
Jurisdiktion
Artikel 42
Val av forum
1. Med förbehåll för artiklarna 43 och 44 ska de domstolar i en fördragsslutande stat som parterna i en transaktion har valt, ha behörighet att pröva alla framställningar som grundas på Konventions bestämmelser, oavsett om den valda domstolen har anknytning till parterna eller transaktionen.
Sådan behörighet ska vara exklusiv, såvida inte parterna överenskommer om annat.
2. Avtal om domstols behörighet ska vara skriftligt eller annars uppfylla de formella krav som i lagen i den stat där den valda domstolen finns.
Artikel 43
Jurisdiktion enligt artikel 13
1. Domstolarna i en fördragsslutande stat, som utsetts av parterna, och domstolarna i den fördragsslutande stat där objektet finns, ska ha behörighet att besluta om de åtgärder som anges i artikel 13(1)(a), (b), (c) och artikel 13(4)
gällande det objektet.
2. Behörighet att besluta om åtgärd som anses i artikel 13(1)(d) eller andra interimistiska åtgärder enligt artikel 13(4) har:
a) de domstolar parterna har valt; eller
b) domstolarna i en fördragsslutande stat på vars territorium gäldenären befinner sig, varvid åtgärden enligt villkoren i beslutet, endast kan verkställas i den fördragsslutande statens territorium.
3. En domstol är behörig enligt de föregående punkterna, även om det slutliga avgörandet av en framställan som avses i artikel 13(1) kommer att, eller får, göras av en domstol i en annan fördragsslutande stat eller i skiljeförfarande.
Artikel 44
Behörighet att vidta åtgärder gentemot registratorn
1. Domstolarna som är belägna där registratorn har sitt huvudkontor ska ha exklusiv behörighet att pröva skadeståndstalan, eller besluta om åtgärder, mot registratorn.
2. Om en person inte hörsammar en framställan som görs enligt artikel 25 och personen inte längre existerar eller inte kan påträffas för föreläggande att upphäva registreringen, ska domstolarna som avses i föregående punkt ha exklusiv behörighet att på begäran av gäldenären eller den framtida gäldenären, förelägga registratorn att upphäva registreringen.
3. Om en person inte följer ett beslut av en domstol med behörighet enligt den här Konventionen eller, om det rör sig om en nationell säkerhetsrätt, en behörig domstols beslut enligt vilket personen åläggs att ändra eller upphäva en registrering, får de domstolar som avses i punkt 1 förelägga registratorn att vidta sådana åtgärder som krävs för att verkställa beslutet.
4. Med förbehåll för föregående stycken får ingen domstol vidta åtgärder, meddela domar eller fatta beslut riktade mot registratorn.
Artikel 45
Behörighet vid insolvensförfaranden
Bestämmelserna i detta kapitel är inte tillämpliga på insolvensförfaranden.
Kapitel XIII
Förhållande till andra konventioner
Artikel 45 bis
Förhållande till FN:s konvention om överlåtelse av fordringar inom internationell handel
Konventionen ska ha företräde framför FN:s konvention om överlåtelse av fordringar inom internationell handel, öppen för undertecknande i New York den 12 december 2001, i den utsträckning den avser överlåtelsen av fordringar som utgör tillhörande rättigheter avseende internationella säkerhetsrätter i luftfartsobjekt, rullande järnvägsmateriel och rymdobjekt.
Artikel 46
Förhållande till Unidroits konvention om internationell finansiell leasing
Protokollet får fastställa förhållandet mellan Konventionen och Unidroits konvention om internationell finansiell leasing, undertecknad i Ottawa den 28 maj 1988.
Kapitel XIV
Slutbestämmelser
Artikel 47
Undertecknande, ratifikation, godtagande, godkännande eller anslutning
1. Den här Konventionen är öppen för undertecknande i Kapstaden den 16 november 2001 av de stater som deltar i diplomatkonferensen i Kapstaden den 29 oktober till den 16 november 2001 för antagande av en konvention avseende lösa saker och ett luftfartsprotokoll. Efter den 16 november 2001 ska Konventionen vara öppen för undertecknande av samtliga stater vid sätet för Internationella institutet för harmonisering av privaträtten (Unidroit) i Rom tills den träder i kraft i enlighet med artikel 49.
2. Den här Konventionen ska ratificeras, godtas eller godkännas av de stater som undertecknat den.
3. Alla stater som inte undertecknar Konvention får när som helst därefter ansluta sig till den.
4. Ratifikation, godtagande, godkännande eller anslutning får effekt genom deponering av ett formellt dokument därom hos depositarien.
Artikel 48
Regionala organisationer för ekonomisk integration
1. En regional organisation för ekonomisk integration, som utgörs av suveräna stater och är behörig vad avser vissa frågor som regleras i Konventionen får underteckna, godta och godkänna Konventionen eller ansluta sig till den. I sådana fall ska den regionala organisationen för ekonomisk integration ha samma rättigheter och skyldigheter som en fördragsslutande stat, i den utsträckning organisationen är behörig i frågor som regleras i Konventionen. När antalet fördragsslutande stater ska räknas enligt Konventionen, ska den regionala organisationen för ekonomisk integration inte räknas som en fördragsslutande stat i tillägg till de medlemsstater som är fördragsslutande stater.
2. Vid undertecknandet, godtagandet, godkännandet eller anslutningen ska den regionala organisationen för ekonomisk integration lägga fram en förklaring för depositarien gällande de frågor som regleras i Konventionen, vilka medlemsstaterna delegerat sin behörighet till organisationen.
Den regionala organisationen för ekonomisk integration ska utan dröjsmål underrätta depositarien om alla eventuella ändringar i behörighetsdelegeringen, inkluderande nya behörighetsdelegeringar.
3. Hänvisningar till fördragsslutande stat, fördragsslutande stater, stat som är part eller stater som är parter i Konventionen ska gälla även för en regional organisation för ekonomisk integration när detta framgår av sammanhanget.
Artikel 49
Ikraftträdande
1. Den här Konventionen träder i kraft den första dagen i den månad som följer efter det att tre månader förflutit från och med den dag då det tredje ratifikations-, godtagande-, godkännande- eller anslutningsinstrumentet deponerats, dock endast i fråga om en kategori av objekt på vilken ett protokoll är tilllämpligt:
a) från och med nämnda protokolls ikraftträdande;
b) i enlighet med nämnda protokolls bestämmelser; och
c) mellan de stater som är parter till Konventionen och nämnda protokoll.
2. För övriga stater träder Konventionen i kraft den första dagen i den månad som följer efter det att tre månader förflutit efter dagen då statens ratifikations-, godtagande-, godkännande- eller anslutningsinstrumentet deponerats, dock endast i fråga om en kategori av objekt på vilken ett protokoll är tillämpligt och, i fråga om detta protokoll, i enlighet med de villkor som avses i styckena a-c i föregående punkt.
Artikel 50
Interna transaktioner
1. En fördragsslutande stat får vid ratifikationen, godtagandet, godkännandet av protokollet eller anslutningen till detta förklara att Konvention inte ska tillämpas på en transaktion som är intern i förhållande till denna stat i fråga om alla eller vissa typer av objekt.
2. Föregående stycke till trots ska bestämmelserna i artiklarna 8(4), 9(1), 16, kapitel V, artikel 29 och samtliga bestämmelser i den här Konventionen om registrerade säkerhetsrätter tillämpas på en intern transaktion.
3. Om ett meddelande om nationell säkerhetsrätt har registrerats i det internationella registret, ska prioriteten för innehavaren av denna säkerhetsrätt enligt artikel 29 inte påverkas av att denna säkerhetsrätt innehas av en annan person till följd av överlåtelse eller subrogation enligt tillämplig lag.
Artikel 51
Kommande protokoll
1. Depositarien får inrätta arbetsgrupper, vilka i samarbete med sådana icke-statliga organisationer som depositarien finner lämpliga, ska utvärdera möjligheten att utvidga tillämpningen av den här Konventionen, genom ett eller flera protokoll, till att omfatta objekt i någon annan kategori av identifierbara lösa saker av stort värde, jämte tillhörande rättigheter, än de kategorier som anges i artikel 2(3).
2. Depositarien ska överlämna texten till varje preliminärt utkast till protokoll avseende en kategori av objekt som utarbetats av en sådan arbetsgrupp till alla stater som är parter i Konventionen, alla stater som är medlemmar hos depositarien, alla medlemsstater i Förenta Nationerna som inte är medlemmar hos depositarien och alla relevanta mellanstatliga organisationer, och anmoda dessa stater och organisationer att delta i mellanstatliga förhandlingar i avsikt att utarbeta utkast till protokoll med utgångspunkt i ett sådant preliminärt utkast till protokoll.
3. Depositarien ska även överlämna texten till varje preliminärt utkast till protokoll som utarbetats av en sådan arbetsgrupp till de icke-statliga organisationer som depositarien finner lämpliga. Dessa icke-statliga organisationer ska anmodas att utan dröjsmål för depositarien lägga fram sina synpunkter på texten och att som observatörer delta i utarbetandet av ett utkast till protokoll.
4. När depositariens behöriga organ fastställer att ett sådant utkast till protokoll är färdigt att antas ska depositarien sammankalla en diplomatkonferens för antagande av protokollet.
5. Med förbehåll för punkt 6 ska den här Konventionen, när ett protokoll har antagits, vara tillämplig på den kategori av objekt som avses i nämnda protokoll.
6. Artikel 45 bis i den här Konventionen är tillämplig på ett protokoll endast om detta uttryckligen föreskrivs i protokollet.
Artikel 52
Territoriella enheter
1. Om en fördragsslutande stat har territoriella enheter i vilka olika rättssystem är tilllämpliga på frågor som regleras i den här Konventionen, får den vid ratifikationen, godtagandet, godkännandet eller anslutningen förklara att den här Konventionen ska var tilllämplig i alla dess territoriella områden, eller endast i någon eller några av dessa, och får när som helst ändra denna förklaring genom att avge en ny förklaring.
2. I en sådan förklaring ska det uttryckligen anges i vilka territoriella områden den här Konventionen ska var tilllämplig.
3. Om en fördragsslutande stat inte har avgett någon förklaring enligt punkt 1, ska den här Konventionen tillämpas på alla territoriella områden i staten.
4. Om en fördragsslutande stat utsträcker tillämpningen av Konventionen till att omfatta en eller flera av sina territoriella områden, får förklaringar som kan avges enligt Konventionen, avges i fråga om var och en av dessa territoriella områden, och avgivna förklaringar gällande ett territoriellt område kan ha en annan lydelse än de som har avgetts gällande ett annat territoriellt område.
5. Om Konventionen enligt en förklaring som har avgetts enligt punkt 1 ska tillämpas på en eller flera territoriella områden i en fördragsslutande stat:
a) ska gäldenären anses finnas i en fördragsslutande stat endast om gäldenären bildats enligt lagen i ett territoriellt område på vilken Konventionen ska tillämpas, eller om gäldenären har sitt säte, huvudkontor, driftställe eller hemvist i ett territoriellt område inom vilket Konventionen ska tillämpas;
b) ska varje hänvisning till objektets läge i en fördragsslutande stat avse objektets läge i ett territoriellt område inom vilket Konventionen ska tillämpas; och
c) ska varje hänvisning till administrativa myndigheter i den fördragsslutande staten uppfattas som de behöriga administrativa myndigheterna i det territoriella området inom vilket Konventionen ska tillämpas.
Artikel 53
Fastställande av domstolar
En fördragsslutande stat får vid ratifikationen, godtagandet, godkännandet av protokollet eller anslutningen till detta förklara vilken eller vilka domstolar som är relevanta vid tilllämpningen av artikel 1 och kapitel XII i den här Konventionen.
Artikel 54
Förklaringar om åtgärder
1. En fördragsslutande stat får vid ratifikationen, godtagandet, godkännandet av protokollet eller anslutningen till detta förklara att säkerhetshavaren, när den säkerställda tillgången är belägen på dess territorium eller kontrolleras därifrån, inte får leasa ut tillgången inom territoriet.
2. En fördragsslutande stat ska vid ratifikationen, godtagandet, godkännandet av protokollet eller anslutningen till detta förklara om en åtgärd, som står till borgenärens förfogande enligt en bestämmelse i Konventionen och vars verkställighet enligt dessa bestämmelser inte förutsätter en framställan hos domstol, får vidtas endast efter domstolens samtycke.
Artikel 55
Förklaringar om interimistiska åtgärder före avgörande av sakfråga
En fördragsslutande stat får vid ratifikationen, godtagandet, godkännandet av eller anslutningen till protokollet, förklara att staten inte, eller endast delvis, kommer att tillämpa bestämmelserna i artikel 13 eller artikel 43 eller båda. Av förklaringen måste framgå under vilka förutsättningar bestämmelserna i den relevanta artikeln kommer att tillämpas, om de ska tillämpas delvis, eller vilka andra interimistiska åtgärder som kommer att tillämpas.
Artikel 56
Reservationer och förklaringar
1. Ingen reservation får göras mot den här Konvention, men förklaringar som är tillåtna enligt artiklarna 39, 40, 50, 52, 53, 54, 55, 57, 58 och 60 får avges i enlighet med dessa bestämmelser.
2. Varje förklaring, efterföljande förklaring eller återkallande av förklaring enligt den här Konventionen ska anmälas skriftligen till depositarien.
Artikel 57
Efterföljande förklaringar
1. En fördragsslutande stat får när som helst avge en efterföljande förklaring, med undantag av förklaringar till artikel 60, efter dagen för Konventionens ikraftträdande i förhållande till den aktuella staten, genom en anmälan därom till depositarien.
2. En sådan efterföljande förklaring får verkan den första dagen i den månad som följer efter det att sex månader förflutit från och med den dag då depositarien mottagit anmälan. Om det i anmälan anges att förklaringen ska få verkan först efter en längre tid, ska förklaringen få verkan när den angivna tidsperioden har förflutit från det att depositarien mottagit anmälan.
3. Trots föregående stycken ska Konventionen fortsätta att tillämpas som om en sådan efterföljande förklaring inte har avgetts, i fråga om alla rättigheter eller säkerhetsrätter som uppkommit före den dag då den efterföljande förklaringen fick verkan.
Artikel 58
Återkallande av förklaringar
1. Alla de stater som är parter och har avgett en förklaring enligt Konventionen, med undantag av en sådan förklaring som får avges enligt artikel 60, får när som helst återkalla den genom en anmälan därom till depositarien. Ett sådant återkallande får verkan den första dagen i den månad som följer efter det att sex månader förflutit från och med den dag då depositarien mottagit anmälan.
2. Trots föregående stycke ska Konventionen fortsätta att tillämpas som om en sådan förklaring inte har återkallats, i fråga om alla rättigheter eller säkerhetsrätter som uppkommit före den dag då återkallandet fick verkan.
Artikel 59
Uppsägning
1. Alla stater som är parter får säga upp Konventionen genom en skriftlig anmälan till depositarien.
2. En sådan uppsägning får verkan den första dagen i den månad som följer efter det att tolv månader har förflutit från och med den dag då depositarien mottog anmälan.
3. Trots föregående stycken ska den här Konventionen fortsätta att tillämpas som om en uppsägning inte hade skett, i fråga om alla rättigheter och säkerhetsrätter som uppkommit före den dag då uppsägningen fick verkan.
Artikel 60
Övergångsbestämmelser
1. Såvida inte en fördragsslutande stat vid något tillfälle förklarar något annat, ska Konventionen inte tillämpas på en redan befintlig rättighet eller säkerhetsrätt, vilken behåller den prioritet den hade enligt tillämplig lag innan den dag då Konventionen fick verkan.
2. För tillämpningen av artikel 1(v) och för fastställande av prioritet enligt den här Konventionen:
a) avses med "den dag då Konventionen fick verkan" i fråga om gäldenären, antingen den tidpunkt då Konventionen träder i kraft eller den tidpunkt då den stat i vilken gäldenären befinner sig blir fördragsslutande stat, varvid den dag som infaller sist ska gälla; och
b) ska gäldenären anses befinna sig i en stat i vilken dennes huvudkontor är beläget eller, om denne saknar huvudkontor, dennes driftställe, eller om gäldenären har mer än ett driftställe, dennes huvudsakliga driftställe eller, om denne saknar driftställe, dennes hemvist är beläget.
3. En fördragsslutande stat får i en förklaring enligt punkt 1 ange ett datum som ska infalla tidigast tre år efter den dag då förklaringen får verkan, från och med vilket Konventionen och protokollet ska tillämpas, i fråga om fastställandet av prioritet, inbegripet skydd av varje redan befintlig prioritet, på redan befintliga rättigheter eller säkerhetsrätter som bildats enligt ett avtal som ingåtts när gäldenären befann sig i en stat enligt punkt 2(b), dock endast i den utsträckning och på det sätt som anges i nämnda förklaring.
Artikel 61
Konferenser för utvärdering, ändringar och därtill hörande frågor
Depositarien ska varje år, eller med annat lämpligt tidsintervall, utarbeta rapporter riktade till de stater som är parter om hur den internationella ordning som inrättas genom Konventionen fungerar i praktiken. Depositarien ska utarbeta rapporterna med beaktande av tillsynsmyndighetens rapporter om driften av det internationella registreringssystemet.
2. På begäran av minst tjugofem procent av de stater som är parter ska depositarien i samråd med tillsynsmyndigheten anordna återkommande utvärderingskonferenser för dessa stater för genomgång av:
a) hur Konventionen till-lämpas i praktiken och i vilken grad finansiering mot säkerhetsrätt i tillgångar och leasing av objekt som faller inom Konventionens tillämpningsområde faktiskt underlättas genom Konventionen;
b) den juridiska tolkningen och tillämpningen av Konventionen och regelverket;
c) det internationella registreringssystemets funktion, registratorns utförande och tillsynsmyndighetens tillsyn över registratorn, på grundval av tillsynsmyndighetens rapporter;
och
d) huruvida det är önskvärt med någon förändring av den här Konventionen eller bestämmelserna om det internationella registret.
3. Med förbehåll för punkt 4 ska varje ändring av den här Konventionen godkännas av minst två tredjedels majoritet av de stater som är parter och som deltar vid konferensen enligt föregående stycke, och träder sedan i kraft i förhållande till de stater som har ratificerat, godtagit eller godkänt denna sedan den ratificerats, godtagits eller godkänts av tre stater i enlighet med bestämmelserna i artikel 49 om Konventionens ikraftträdande.
4. Om avsikten är att den föreslagna ändringen av Konventionen ska tillämpas på mer än en kategori av utrustning, ska den likaledes godkännas av minst två tredjedels majoritet av de stater som är parter i varje protokoll och som deltar vid konferensen enligt punkt 2.
Artikel 62
Depositarien och dess uppgifter
1. Ratifikations-, godtagande-, godkännande- och anslutningsinstrument ska deponeras hos Internationella institutet för harmonisering av privaträtten (Unidroit), nedan kallad depositarien.
2. Depositarien ska:
a) underrätta alla fördragsslutande stater om:
(i) varje nytt undertecknande eller varje ny deponering av ratifikations-, godtagande-, godkännande- eller anslutningsinstrument och om datum för detta undertecknande eller denna deponering;
(ii)  datum för Konventionens ikraftträdande;
(iii) om varje förklaring som avges enligt Konventionen och om datum för denna förklaring;
(iv) om varje återkallande eller ändring av förklaringar, samt om datum för sådant återkallande eller sådan ändring;
och
(v) varje anmälan om uppsägning av Konvention samt om datum för sådan uppsägning och om dag den får verkan;
b) överlämna bestyrkta avskrifter av Konventionen till alla fördragsslutande stater,
c) förse tillsynsmyndigheten och registratorn med avskrifter av alla ratifikations-, godtagande-, godkännande- eller anslutningsinstrument, underrätta dem om dagen för deponering av dessa, om alla förklaringar, återkallanden och ändringar av förklaringar samt om alla anmälningar om uppsägning, med uppgift om datum för dessa anmälningar, så att uppgifterna i dessa är enkelt och fullständigt tillgängliga, och
d) utföra de övriga uppgifter som normalt åligger depositarier.
TILL BEKRÄFTELSE HÄRAV har undertecknade befullmäktigade ombud med stöd av vederbörliga fullmakter undertecknat denna konvention.
I Kapstaden den sextonde november tvåtusen ett i ett enda exemplar på engelska, arabiska, kinesiska, franska, ryska och spanska språken, vilka texter alla har lika giltighet, vilken giltighet träder i kraft när konferensens gemensamma sekretariat under överinseende av konferensens ordförande inom 90 dagar från och med dagen för denna akt har kontrollerat den inbördes överensstämmelsen mellan dessa texter.
Bilaga 2
PROTOCOL
TO THE CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL INTERESTS IN MOBILE EQUIPMENT ON MATTERS SPECIFIC TO AIRCRAFT EQUIPMENT
THE STATES PARTIES TO THIS PROTOCOL,
CONSIDERING it necessary to implement the Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment (hereinafter referred to as "the Convention") as it relates to aircraft equipment, in the light of the purposes set out in the preamble to the Convention,
MINDFUL of the need to adapt the Convention to meet the particular requirements of aircraft finance and to extend the sphere of application of the Convention to include contracts of sale of aircraft equipment,
MINDFUL of the principles and objectives of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed at Chicago on 7 December 1944,
HAVE AGREED upon the following provisions relating to aircraft equipment:
Chapter I
Sphere of application and general provisions
Article I
Defined terms
1. In this Protocol, except where the context otherwise requires, terms used in it have the meanings set out in the Convention.
2. In this Protocol the following terms are employed with the meanings set out below:
a) "aircraft" means aircraft as defined for the purposes of the Chicago Convention which are either airframes with aircraft engines installed thereon or helicopters;
b) "aircraft engines" means aircraft engines (other than those used in military, customs or police services) powered by jet propulsion or turbine or piston technology and:
(i) in the case of jet propulsion aircraft engines, have at least 1750 lb of thrust or its equivalent; and
(ii) in the case of turbine-powered or piston-powered aircraft engines, have at least 550 rated take-off shaft horsepower or its equivalent, together with all modules and other installed, incorporated or attached accessories, parts and equipment and all data, manuals and records relating thereto;
c) "aircraft objects" means airframes, aircraft engines and helicopters;
d) "aircraft register" means a register maintained by a State or a common mark registering authority for the purposes of the Chicago Convention;
e) "airframes" means airframes (other than those used in military, customs or police services) that, when appropriate aircraft engines are installed thereon, are type certified by the competent aviation authority to transport:
(i) at least eight (8) persons including crew; or
(ii) goods in excess of 2750 kilograms, together with all installed, incorporated or attached accessories, parts and equipment (other than aircraft engines), and all data, manuals and records relating thereto;
f) "authorised party" means the party referred to in Article XIII(3);
g) "Chicago Convention" means the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed at Chicago on 7 December 1944, as amended, and its Annexes;
h) "common mark registering authority" means the authority maintaining a register in accordance with Article 77 of the Chicago Convention as implemented by the Resolution adopted on 14 December 1967 by the Council of the International Civil Aviation Organization on nationality and registration of aircraft operated by international operating agencies;
i) "de-registration of the aircraft" means deletion or removal of the registration of the aircraft from its aircraft register in accordance with the Chicago Convention;
j) "guarantee contract" means a contract entered into by a person as guarantor;
k) "guarantor" means a person who, for the purpose of assuring performance of any obligations in favour of a creditor secured by a security agreement or under an agreement, gives or issues a suretyship or demand guarantee or a standby letter of credit or any other form of credit insurance;
l) "helicopters" means heavier-than-air machines (other than those used in military, customs or police services) supported in flight chiefly by the reactions of the air on one or more power-driven rotors on substantially vertical axes and which are type certified by the competent aviation authority to transport:
(i) at least five (5) persons including crew; or
(ii) goods in excess of 450 kilograms, together with all installed, incorporated or attached accessories, parts and equipment (including rotors), and all data, manuals and records relating thereto;
m) "insolvency-related event" means:
(i) the commencement of the insolvency proceedings; or
(ii) the declared intention to suspend or actual suspension of payments by the debtor where the creditor's right to institute insolvency proceedings against the debtor or to exercise remedies under the Convention is prevented or suspended by law or State action;
n) "primary insolvency jurisdiction" means the Contracting State in which the centre of the debtor's main interests is situated, which for this purpose shall be deemed to be the place of the debtor's statutory seat or, if there is none, the place where the debtor is incorporated or formed, unless proved otherwise;
o) "registry authority" means the national authority or the common mark registering authority, maintaining an aircraft register in a Contracting State and responsible for the registration and de-registration of an aircraft in accordance with the Chicago Convention; and
p) "State of registry" means, in respect of an aircraft, the State on the national register of which an aircraft is entered or the State of location of the common mark registering authority maintaining the aircraft register.
Article II
Application of Convention as regards aircraft objects
1. The Convention shall apply in relation to aircraft objects as provided by the terms of this Protocol.
2. The Convention and this Protocol shall be known as the Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment as applied to aircraft objects.
Article III
Application of Convention to sales
The following provisions of the Convention apply as if references to an agreement creating or providing for an international interest were references to a contract of sale and as if references to an international interest, a prospective international interest, the debtor and the creditor were references to a sale, a prospective sale, the seller and the buyer respectively:
Articles 3 and 4;
Article 16(1)(a);
Article 19(4);
Article 20(1) (as regards registration of a contract of  sale or a prospective sale);
Article 25(2) (as regards a prospective sale); and
Article 30.
In addition, the general provisions of Article 1, Article 5, Chapters IV to VII, Article 29 (other than Article 29(3)
which is replaced by Article XIV(1) and (2)), Chapter X, Chapter XII (other than Article 43), Chapter XIII and Chapter XIV (other than Article 60) shall apply to contracts of sale and prospective sales.
Article IV
Sphere of application
1. Without prejudice to Article 3(1) of the Convention, the Convention shall also apply in relation to a helicopter, or to an airframe pertaining to an aircraft, registered in an aircraft register of a Contracting State which is the State of registry, and where such registration is made pursuant to an agreement for registration of the aircraft it is deemed to have been effected at the time of the agreement.
2. For the purposes of the definition of "internal transaction" in Article 1 of the Convention:
a) an airframe is located in the State of registry of the aircraft of which it is a part;
b) an aircraft engine is located in the State of registry of the aircraft on which it is installed or, if it is not installed on an aircraft, where it is physically located;
and
c) a helicopter is located in its State of registry,
at the time of the conclusion of the agreement creating or providing for the interest.
3. The parties may, by agreement in writing, exclude the application of Article XI and, in their relations with each other, derogate from or vary the effect of any of the provisions of this Protocol except Article IX (2)-(4).
Article V
Formalities, effects and registration of contracts of sale
1. For the purposes of this Protocol, a contract of sale is one which:
a) is in writing;
b) relates to an aircraft object of which the seller has power to dispose; and
c) enables the aircraft object to be identified in conformity with this Protocol.
2. A contract of sale transfers the interest of the seller in the aircraft object to the buyer according to its terms.
3. Registration of a contract of sale remains effective indefinitely. Registration of a prospective sale remains effective unless discharged or until expiry of the period, if any, specified in the registration.
Article VI
Representative capacities
A person may enter into an agreement or a sale, and register an international interest in, or a sale of, an aircraft object, in an agency, trust or other representative capacity.
In such case, that person is entitled to assert rights and interests under the Convention.
Article VII
Description of aircraft objects
A description of an aircraft object that contains its manufacturer's serial number, the name of the manufacturer and its model designation is necessary and sufficient to identify the object for the purposes of Article 7(c) of the Convention and Article V(1)(c) of this Protocol.
Article VIII
Choice of law
1. This Article applies only where a Contracting State has made a declaration pursuant to Article XXX(1).
2. The parties to an agreement, or a contract of sale, or a related guarantee contract or subordination agreement may agree on the law which is to govern their contractual rights and obligations, wholly or in part.
3. Unless otherwise agreed, the reference in the preceding paragraph to the law chosen by the parties is to the domestic rules of law of the designated State or, where that State comprises several territorial units, to the domestic law of the designated territorial unit.
Chapter II
Default remedies, priorities and assignments
Article IX
Modification of default remedies provisions
1. In addition to the remedies specified in Chapter III of the Convention, the creditor may, to the extent that the debtor has at any time so agreed and in the circumstances specified in that Chapter:
a) procure the de-registration of the aircraft; and
b) procure the export and physical transfer of the aircraft object from the territory in which it is situated.
2. The creditor shall not exercise the remedies specified in the preceding paragraph without the prior consent in writing of the holder of any registered interest ranking in priority to that of the creditor.
3. Article 8(3) of the Convention shall not apply to aircraft objects. Any remedy given by the Convention in relation to an aircraft object shall be exercised in a commercially reasonable manner. A remedy shall be deemed to be exercised in a commercially reasonable manner where it is exercised in conformity with a provision of the agreement except where such a provision is manifestly unreasonable.
4. A chargee giving ten or more working days' prior written notice of a proposed sale or lease to interested persons shall be deemed to satisfy the requirement of providing
"reasonable prior notice" specified in Article 8(4) of the Convention. The foregoing shall not prevent a chargee and a chargor or a guarantor from agreeing to a longer period of prior notice.
5. The registry authority in a Contracting State shall, subject to any applicable safety laws and regulations, honour a request for de-registration and export if:
a) the request is properly submitted by the authorised party under a recorded irrevocable deregistration and export request authorisation; and
b) the authorised party certifies to the registry authority, if required by that authority, that all registered interests ranking in priority to that of the creditor in whose favour the authorisation has been issued have been discharged or that the holders of such interests have consented to the de-registration and export.
6. A chargee proposing to procure the de-registration and export of an aircraft under paragraph 1 otherwise than pursuant to a court order shall give reasonable prior notice in writing of the proposed deregistration and export to:
a) interested persons specified in Article 1(m)(i) and (ii)
of the Convention; and
b) interested persons specified in Article 1(m)(iii) of the Convention who have given notice of their rights to the chargee within a reasonable time prior to the de-registration and export.
Article X
Modification of provisions regarding relief pending final determination
1. This Article applies only where a Contracting State has made a declaration under Article XXX(2) and to the extent stated in such declaration.
2. For the purposes of Article 13(1) of the Convention,
"speedy" in the context of obtaining relief means within such number of working days from the date of filing of the application for relief as is specified in a declaration made by the Contracting State in which the application is made.
3. Article 13(1) of the Convention applies with the following being added immediately after sub- paragraph (d):
"(e) if at any time the debtor and the creditor specifically agree, sale and application of proceeds therefrom",
and Article 43(2) applies with the insertion after the words
"Article 13(1)(d)" of the words "and (e)".
4. Ownership or any other interest of the debtor passing om a sale under the preceding paragraph is free from any other interest over which the creditor's international interest has priority under the provisions of Article 29 of the Convention.
5. The creditor and the debtor or any other interested person may agree in writing to exclude the application of Article 13(2) of the Convention.
6. With regard to the remedies in Article IX(1):
a) they shall be made available by the registry authority and other administrative authorities, as applicable, in a Contracting State no later than five working days after the creditor notifies such authorities that the relief specified in Article IX(1) is granted or, in the case of relief granted by a foreign court, recognised by a court of that Contracting State, and that the creditor is entitled to procure those remedies in accordance with the Convention; and
b) the applicable authorities shall expeditiously co-operate with and assist the creditor in the exercise of such remedies in conformity with the applicable aviation safety laws and regulations.
7. Paragraphs 2 and 6 shall not affect any applicable aviation safety laws and regulations.
Article XI
Remedies on insolvency
1. This Article applies only where a Contracting State that is the primary insolvency jurisdiction has made a declaration pursuant to Article XXX(3).
Alternative A
2. Upon the occurrence of an insolvency-related event, the insolvency administrator or the debtor, as applicable, shall, subject to paragraph 7, give possession of the aircraft object to the creditor no later than the earlier of:
a) the end of the waiting period; and
b) the date on which the creditor would be entitled to possession of the aircraft object if this Article did not apply.
3. For the purposes of this Article, the "waiting period"
shall be the period specified in a declaration of the Contracting State which is the primary insolvency jurisdiction.
4. References in this Article to the "insolvency administrator" shall be to that person in its official, not in its personal, capacity.
5. Unless and until the creditor is given the opportunity to take possession under paragraph 2:
a) the insolvency administrator or the debtor, as applicable, shall preserve the aircraft object and maintain it and its value in accordance with the agreement; and
b) the creditor shall be entitled to apply for any other forms of interim relief available under the applicable law.
6. Sub-paragraph (a) of the preceding paragraph shall not preclude the use of the aircraft object under arrangements designed to preserve the aircraft object and maintain it and its value.
7. The insolvency administrator or the debtor, as applicable, may retain possession of the aircraft object where, by the time specified in paragraph 2, it has cured all defaults other than a default constituted by the opening of insolvency proceedings and has agreed to perform all future obligations under the agreement. A second waiting period shall not apply in respect of a default in the performance of such future obligations.
8. With regard to the remedies in Article IX(1):
a) they shall be made available by the registry authority and the administrative authorities in a Contracting State, as applicable, no later than five working days after the date on which the creditor notifies such authorities that it is entitled to procure those remedies in accordance with the Convention; and
b) the applicable authorities shall expeditiously co-operate with and assist the creditor in the exercise of such remedies in conformity with the applicable aviation safety laws and regulations.
9. No exercise of remedies permitted by the Convention or this Protocol may be prevented or delayed after the date specified in paragraph 2.
10. No obligations of the debtor under the agreement may be modified without the consent of the creditor.
11. Nothing in the preceding paragraph shall be construed to affect the authority, if any, of the insolvency administrator under the applicable law to terminate the agreement.
12. No rights or interests, except for non-consensual rights or interests of a category covered by a declaration pursuant to Article 39(1), shall have priority in insolvency proceedings over registered interests.
13. The Convention as modified by Article IX of this Protocol shall apply to the exercise of any remedies under this Article.
Alternative B
2. Upon the occurrence of an insolvency-related event, the insolvency administrator or the debtor, as applicable, upon the request of the creditor, shall give notice to the creditor within the time specified in a declaration of a Contracting State pursuant to Article XXX(3) whether it will:
a) cure all defaults other than a default constituted by the opening of insolvency proceedings and agree to perform all future obligations, under the agreement and related transaction documents; or
b) give the creditor the opportunity to take possession of the aircraft object, in accordance with the applicable law.
3. The applicable law referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of the preceding paragraph may permit the court to require the taking of any additional step or the provision of any additional guarantee.
4. The creditor shall provide evidence of its claims and proof that its international interest has been registered.
5. If the insolvency administrator or the debtor, as applicable, does not give notice in conformity with paragraph 2, or when the insolvency administrator or the debtor has declared that it will give the creditor the opportunity to take possession of the aircraft object but fails to do so, the court may permit the creditor to take possession of the aircraft object upon such terms as the court may order and may require the taking of any additional step or the provision of any additional guarantee.
6. The aircraft object shall not be sold pending a decision by a court regarding the claim and the international interest.
Article XII
Insolvency assistance
1. This Article applies only where a Contracting State has made a declaration pursuant to Article XXX(1).
2. The courts of a Contracting State in which an aircraft object is situated shall, in accordance with the law of the Contracting State, co-operate to the maximum extent possible with foreign courts and foreign insolvency administrators in carrying out the provisions of Article XI.
Article XIII
De-registration and export request authorisation
1. This Article applies only where a Contracting State has made a declaration pursuant to Article XXX(1).
2. Where the debtor has issued an irrevocable de-registration and export request authorisation substantially in the form annexed to this Protocol and has submitted such authorisation for recordation to the registry authority, that authorisation shall be so recorded.
3. The person in whose favour the authorisation has been issued (the "authorised party") or its certified designee shall be the sole person entitled to exercise the remedies specified in Article IX(1) and may do so only in accordance with the authorisation and applicable aviation safety laws and regulations. Such authorisation may not be revoked by the debtor without the consent in writing of the authorised party. The registry authority shall remove an authorisation from the registry at the request of the authorised party.
4. The registry authority and other administrative authorities in Contracting States shall expeditiously co-operate with and assist the authorised party in the exercise of the remedies specified in Article IX.
Article XIV
Modification of priority provisions
1. A buyer of an aircraft object under a registered sale acquires its interest in that object free from an interest subsequently registered and from an unregistered interest, even if the buyer has actual knowledge of the unregistered interest.
2. A buyer of an aircraft object acquires its interest in that object subject to an interest registered at the time of its acquisition.
3. Ownership of or another right or interest in an aircraft engine shall not be affected by its installation on or removal from an aircraft.
4. Article 29(7) of the Convention applies to an item, other than an object, installed on an airframe, aircraft engine or helicopter.
Article XV
Modification of assignment provisions
Article 33(1) of the Convention applies as if the following were added immediately after sub-paragraph (b):
"and (c) the debtor has consented in writing, whether or not the consent is given in advance of the assignment or identifies the assignee."
Article XVI
Debtor provisions
1. In the absence of a default within the meaning of Article 11 of the Convention, the debtor shall be entitled to the quiet possession and use of the object in accordance with the agreement as against:
a) its creditor and the holder of any interest from which the debtor takes free pursuant to Article 29(4) of the Convention or, in the capacity of buyer, Article XIV(1) of this Protocol, unless and to the extent that the debtor has otherwise agreed; and
b) the holder of any interest to which the debtor's right or interest is subject pursuant to Article 29(4) of the Convention or, in the capacity of buyer, Article XIV(2) of this Protocol, but only to the extent, if any, that such holder has agreed.
2. Nothing in the Convention or this Protocol affects the liability of a creditor for any breach of the agreement under the applicable law in so far as that agreement relates to an aircraft object.
Chapter III
Registry provisions relating to international interests in aircraft objects
Article XVII
The Supervisory Authority and the Registrar
1. The Supervisory Authority shall be the international entity designated by a Resolution adopted by the Diplomatic Conference to Adopt a Mobile Equipment Convention and an Aircraft Protocol.
2. Where the international entity referred to in the preceding paragraph is not able and willing to act as Supervisory Authority, a Conference of Signatory and Contracting States shall be convened to designate another Supervisory Authority.
3. The Supervisory Authority and its officers and employees shall enjoy such immunity from legal and administrative process as is provided under the rules applicable to them as an international entity or otherwise.
4. The Supervisory Authority may establish a commission of experts, from among persons nominated by Signatory and Contracting States and having the necessary qualifications and experience, and entrust it with the task of assisting the Supervisory Authority in the discharge of its functions.
5. The first Registrar shall operate the International Registry for a period of five years from the date of entry into force of this Protocol. Thereafter, the Registrar shall be appointed or reappointed at regular five-yearly intervals by the Supervisory Authority.
Article XVIII
First regulations
The first regulations shall be made by the Supervisory Authority so as to take effect upon the entry into force of this Protocol.
Article XIX
Designated entry points
1. Subject to paragraph 2, a Contracting State may at any time designate an entity or entities in its territory as the entry point or entry points through which there shall or may be transmitted to the International Registry information required for registration other than registration of a notice of a national interest or a right or interest under Article 40 in either case arising under the laws of another State.
2. A designation made under the preceding paragraph may permit, but not compel, use of a designated entry point or entry points for information required for registrations in respect of aircraft engines.
Article XX
Additional modifications to Registry provisions
1. For the purposes of Article 19(6) of the Convention, the search criteria for an aircraft object shall be the name of its manufacturer, its manufacturer's serial number and its model designation, supplemented as necessary to ensure uniqueness. Such supplementary information shall be specified in the regulations.
2. For the purposes of Article 25(2) of the Convention and in the circumstances there described, the holder of a registered prospective international interest or a registered prospective assignment of an international interest or the person in whose favour a prospective sale has been registered shall take such steps as are within its power to procure the discharge of the registration no later than five working days after the receipt of the demand described in such paragraph.
3. The fees referred to in Article 17(2)(h) of the Convention shall be determined so as to recover the reasonable costs of establishing, operating and regulating the International Registry and the reasonable costs of the Supervisory Authority associated with the performance of the functions, exercise of the powers, and discharge of the duties contemplated by Article 17(2) of the Convention.
4. The centralised functions of the International Registry shall be operated and administered by the Registrar on a twenty-four hour basis. The various entry points shall be operated at least during working hours in their respective territories.
5. The amount of the insurance or financial guarantee referred to in Article 28(4) of the Convention shall, in respect of each event, not be less than the maximum value of an aircraft object as determined by the Supervisory Authority.
6. Nothing in the Convention shall preclude the Registrar from procuring insurance or a financial guarantee covering events for which the Registrar is not liable under Article 28 of the Convention.
Chapter IV
Jurisdiction
Article XXI
Modification of jurisdiction provisions
For the purposes of Article 43 of the Convention and subject to Article 42 of the Convention, a court of a Contracting State also has jurisdiction where the object is a helicopter, or an airframe pertaining to an aircraft, for which that State is the State of registry.
Article XXII
Waivers of sovereign immunity
1. Subject to paragraph 2, a waiver of sovereign immunity from jurisdiction of the courts specified in Article 42 or Article 43 of the Convention or relating to enforcement of rights and interests relating to an aircraft object under the Convention shall be binding and, if the other conditions to such jurisdiction or enforcement have been satisfied, shall be effective to confer jurisdiction and permit enforcement, as the case may be.
2. A waiver under the preceding paragraph must be in writing and contain a description of the aircraft object.
Chapter V
Relationship with other conventions
Article XXIII
Relationship with the Convention on the International Recognition of Rights in Aircraft
The Convention shall, for a Contracting State that is a party to the Convention on the International Recognition of Rights in Aircraft, signed at Geneva on 19 June 1948, supersede that Convention as it relates to aircraft, as defined in this Protocol, and to aircraft objects. However, with respect to rights or interests not covered or affected by the present Convention, the Geneva Convention shall not be superseded.
Article XXIV
Relationship with the Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules Relating to the Precautionary Attachment of Aircraft
1. The Convention shall, for a Contracting State that is a Party to the Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules Relating to the Precautionary Attachment of Aircraft, signed at Rome on 29 May 1933, supersede that Convention as it relates to aircraft, as defined in this Protocol.
2. A Contracting State Party to the above Convention may declare, at the time of ratification, acceptance, approval of, or accession to this Protocol, that it will not apply this Article.
Article XXV
Relationship with the UNIDROIT Convention on International Financial Leasing
The Convention shall supersede the UNIDROIT Convention on International Financial Leasing, signed at Ottawa on 28 May 1988, as it relates to aircraft objects.
Chapter VI
Final provisions
Article XXVI
Signature, ratification, acceptance, approval or accession
1. This Protocol shall be open for signature in Cape Town on 16 November 2001 by States participating in the Diplomatic Conference to Adopt a Mobile Equipment Convention and an Aircraft Protocol held at Cape Town from 29 October to 16 November 2001. After 16 November 2001, this Protocol shall be open to all States for signature at the Headquarters of the International Institute for the Unification of Private Law
(UNIDROIT) in Rome until it enters into force in accordance with Article XXVIII.
2. This Protocol shall be subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by States which have signed it.
3. Any State which does not sign this Protocol may accede to it at any time.
4. Ratification, acceptance, approval or accession is effected by the deposit of a formal instrument to that effect with the Depositary.
5. A State may not become a Party to this Protocol unless it is or becomes also a Party to the Convention.
Article XXVII
Regional Economic Integration Organisations
1. A Regional Economic Integration Organisation which is constituted by sovereign States and has competence over certain matters governed by this Protocol may similarly sign, accept, approve or accede to this Protocol. The Regional Economic Integration Organisation shall in that case have the rights and obligations of a Contracting State, to the extent that that Organisation has competence over matters governed by this Protocol. Where the number of Contracting States is relevant in this Protocol, the Regional Economic Integration Organisation shall not count as a Contracting State in addition to its Member States which are Contracting States.
2. The Regional Economic Integration Organisation shall, at the time of signature, acceptance, approval or accession, make a declaration to the Depositary specifying the matters governed by this Protocol in respect of which competence has been transferred to that Organisation by its Member States.
The Regional Economic Integration Organisation shall promptly notify the Depositary of any changes to the distribution of competence, including new transfers of competence, specified in the declaration under this paragraph.
3. Any reference to a "Contracting State" or "Contracting States" or "State Party" or "States Parties" in this Protocol applies equally to a Regional Economic Integration Organisation where the context so requires.
Article XXVIII
Entry into force
1. This Protocol enters into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of three months after the date of the deposit of the eighth instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, between the States which have deposited such instruments.
2. For other States this Protocol enters into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of three months after the date of the deposit of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.
Article XXIX
Territorial units 1. If a Contracting State has territorial units in which different systems of law are applicable in relation to the matters dealt with in this Protocol, it may, at the time of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, declare that this Protocol is to extend to all its territorial units or only to one or more of them and may modify its declaration by submitting another declaration at any time.
2. Any such declaration shall state expressly the territorial units to which this Protocol applies.
3. If a Contracting State has not made any declaration under paragraph 1, this Protocol shall apply to all territorial units of that State.
4. Where a Contracting State extends this Protocol to one or more of its territorial units, declarations permitted under this Protocol may be made in respect of each such territorial unit, and the declarations made in respect of one territorial unit may be different from those made in respect of another territorial unit.
5. If by virtue of a declaration under paragraph 1, this Protocol extends to one or more territorial units of a Contracting State:
a) the debtor is considered to be situated in a Contracting State only if it is incorporated or formed under a law in force in a territorial unit to which the Convention and this Protocol apply or if it has its registered office or statutory seat, centre of administration, place of business or habitual residence in a territorial unit to which the Convention and this Protocol apply;
b) any reference to the location of the object in a Contracting State refers to the location of the object in a territorial unit to which the Convention and this Protocol apply; and
c) any reference to the administrative authorities in that Contracting State shall be construed as referring to the administrative authorities having jurisdiction in a territorial unit to which the Convention and this Protocol apply and any reference to the national register or to the registry authority in that Contracting State shall be construed as referring to the aircraft register in force or to the registry authority having jurisdiction in the territorial unit or units to which the Convention and this Protocol apply.
Article XXX
Declarations relating to certain provisions
1. A Contracting State may, at the time of ratification, acceptance, approval of, or accession to this Protocol, declare that it will apply any one or more of Articles VIII, XII and XIII of this Protocol.
2. A Contracting State may, at the time of ratification, acceptance, approval of, or accession to this Protocol, declare that it will apply Article X of this Protocol, wholly or in part. If it so declares with respect to Article X(2), it shall specify the time-period required thereby.
3. A Contracting State may, at the time of ratification, acceptance, approval of, or accession to this Protocol, declare that it will apply the entirety of Alternative A, or the entirety of Alternative B of Article XI and, if so, shall specify the types of insolvency proceeding, if any, to which it will apply Alternative A and the types of insolvency proceeding, if any, to which it will apply Alternative B. A Contracting State making a declaration pursuant to this paragraph shall specify the time-period required by Article XI.
4. The courts of Contracting States shall apply Article XI in conformity with the declaration made by the Contracting State which is the primary insolvency jurisdiction.
5. A Contracting State may, at the time of ratification, acceptance, approval of, or accession to this Protocol, declare that it will not apply the provisions of Article XXI, wholly or in part. The declaration shall specify under which conditions the relevant Article will be applied, in case it will be applied partly, or otherwise which other forms of interim relief will be applied.
Article XXXI
Declarations under the Convention
Declarations made under the Convention, including those made under Articles 39, 40, 50, 53, 54, 55, 57, 58 and 60 of the Convention, shall be deemed to have also been made under this Protocol unless stated otherwise.
Article XXXII
Reservations and declarations
1. No reservations may be made to this Protocol but declarations authorised by Articles XXIV, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXIII and XXXIV may be made in accordance with these provisions.
2. Any declaration or subsequent declaration or any withdrawal of a declaration made under this Protocol shall be notified in writing to the Depositary.
Article XXXIII
Subsequent declarations
1. A State Party may make a subsequent declaration, other than a declaration made in accordance with Article XXXI under Article 60 of the Convention, at any time after the date on which this Protocol has entered into force for it, by notifying the Depositary to that effect.
2. Any such subsequent declaration shall take effect on the first day of the month following the expiration of six months after the date of receipt of the notification by the Depositary. Where a longer period for that declaration to take effect is specified in the notification, it shall take effect upon the expiration of such longer period after receipt of the notification by the Depositary.
3. Notwithstanding the previous paragraphs, this Protocol shall continue to apply, as if no such subsequent declarations had been made, in respect of all rights and interests arising prior to the effective date of any such subsequent declaration.
Article XXXIV
Withdrawal of declarations
1. Any State Party having made a declaration under this Protocol, other than a declaration made in accordance with Article XXXI under Article 60 of the Convention, may withdraw it at any time by notifying the Depositary. Such withdrawal is to take effect on the first day of the month following the expiration of six months after the date of receipt of the notification by the Depositary.
2. Notwithstanding the previous paragraph, this Protocol shall continue to apply, as if no such withdrawal of declaration had been made, in respect of all rights and interests arising prior to the effective date of any such withdrawal.
Article XXXV
Denunciations
1. Any State Party may denounce this Protocol by notification in writing to the Depositary.
2. Any such denunciation shall take effect on the first day of the month following the expiration of twelve months after the date of receipt of the notification by the Depositary.
3. Notwithstanding the previous paragraphs, this Protocol shall continue to apply, as if no such denunciation had been made, in respect of all rights and interests arising prior to the effective date of any such denunciation.
Article XXXVI
Review Conferences, amendments and related matters
1. The Depositary, in consultation with the Supervisory Authority, shall prepare reports yearly, or at such other time as the circumstances may require, for the States Parties as to the manner in which the international regime established in the Convention as amended by this Protocol has operated in practice. In preparing such reports, the Depositary shall take into account the reports of the Supervisory Authority concerning the functioning of the international registration system.
2. At the request of not less than twenty-five per cent of the States Parties, Review Conferences of the States Parties shall be convened from time to time by the Depositary, in consultation with the Supervisory Authority, to consider:
a) the practical operation of the Convention as amended by this Protocol and its effectiveness in facilitating the asset-based financing and leasing of the objects covered by its terms;
b) the judicial interpretation given to, and the application made of the terms of this Protocol and the regulations;
c) the functioning of the international registration system, the performance of the Registrar and its oversight by the Supervisory Authority, taking into account the reports of the Supervisory Authority; and
d) whether any modifications to this Protocol or the arrangements relating to the International Registry are desirable.
3. Any amendment to this Protocol shall be approved by at least a two-thirds majority of States Parties participating in the Conference referred to in the preceding paragraph and shall then enter into force in respect of States which have ratified, accepted or approved such amendment when it has been ratified, accepted or approved by eight States in accordance with the provisions of Article XXVIII relating to its entry into force.
Article XXXVII
Depositary and its functions
1. Instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession shall be deposited with the International Institute for the Unification of Private Law (UNIDROIT), which is hereby designated the Depositary.
2. The Depositary shall:
a) inform all Contracting States of:
(i) each new signature or deposit of an instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, together with the date thereof;
(ii) the date of entry into force of this Protocol;
(iii) each declaration made in accordance with this Protocol, together with the date thereof;
(iv) the withdrawal or amendment of any declaration, together with the date thereof; and
(v) the notification of any denunciation of this Protocol together with the date thereof and the date on which it takes effect;
b) transmit certified true copies of this Protocol to all Contracting States;
c) provide the Supervisory Authority and the Registrar with a copy of each instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, together with the date of deposit thereof, of each declaration or withdrawal or amendment of a declaration and of each notification of denunciation, together with the date of notification thereof, so that the information contained therein is easily and fully available; and
d) perform such other functions customary for depositaries.
PROTOKOLL
TILL KONVENTIONEN OM INTERNATIONELLA SÄKERHETSRÄTTER I LÖSA SAKER, OM SÄRSKILDA FRÅGOR RÖRANDE LUFTFARTSOBJEKT
DE STATER SOM ÄR PARTER TILL DETTA PROTOKOLL,
ANSER att konventionen om internationella säkerhetsrätter i lösa saker (Konventionen) bör, mot bakgrund av Konventionens syften såsom dessa kommer till uttryck i Konventionens ingress, implementeras i den utsträckning den är tilllämplig på luftfartsobjekt,
ÄR MEDVETNA om att Konventionen bör anpassas efter de särskilda villkor som gäller vid luftfartsfinansiering, och utvidgas till att omfatta försäljning av luftfartsobjekt,
ÄR MEDVETNA om principerna i och syftet med Konventionen om Internationell Civil Luftfart undertecknad i Chicago den 7 december 1944 (Chicagokonventionen),
HAR ENATS om följande bestämmelser om luftfartsobjekt:
Kapitel I
Tillämpningsområde och allmänna bestämmelser
Artikel I
Definitioner
1. Om inte annat framgår av sammanhanget ska termer som definieras i Konventionen ha samma betydelse i detta protokoll (Protokollet).
2. I Protokollet har följande termer den betydelse som anges nedan:
a) luftfartyg: luftfartyg enligt definitionen i Chicagokonventionen, dvs. luftfartygsskrov med flygmotorer installerade, eller helikoptrar;
b) flygmotorer: flygmotorer (med undantag för de som används av militär, tull eller polis) som är reaktionsmotorer, turbinmotorer eller kolvmotorer, och som har
(i) en drivkraft på minst 1 750 pund eller motsvarande, för reaktionsmotorer; och
(ii) minst 550 hästkrafter nominell axeleffekt eller motsvarande, vid uppstigningen för turbinmotorer och kolvmotorer; tillsammans med komponenter, delar och utrustning som är installerad, inbyggd eller fastsatta i dessa samt alla handböcker, manualer och loggböcker som har samband med dessa;
c) luftfartsobjekt: luftfartygsskrov, flygmotorer och helikoptrar.
d) luftfartygsregister: register som förs av en stat eller en registreringsmyndighet enligt Chicagokonventionen;
e) luftfartygsskrov: flygplansskrov (med undantag för de som används av militär, tull eller polis) som, när utrustade med flygmotorer, är typcertifierade av en behörig luftfartsmyndighet:
(i) för transport av minst åtta (8) personer inklusive besättning, eller
(ii) för transport av frakt över 2 750 kg; tillsammans med komponenter, delar och utrustning som är installerad, inbyggd eller fastsatta i dessa (med undantag för flygmotorer) samt alla handböcker, manualer och loggböcker som har samband med dessa;
f) bemyndigad part: den part som avses i artikel XIII(3).
g) Chicagokonventionen: Konventionen om Internationell Civil Luftfart, undertecknad i Chicago den 7 december 1944, med senare ändringar, samt bilagorna till denna;
h) registreringsmyndighet för gemensamhetsbeteckningar; avser den myndighet som har till uppgift att föra register i enlighet med artikel 77 i Chicagokonventionen, såsom den antagits genom resolutionen av Internationella Civila Luftfartsorganisationens råd den 14 december 1967 om nationalitet och registrering av luftfartyg som opereras av internationella organisationer;
i) avregistrering av luftfartyg: strykning ur eller avregistrering av luftfartygets registrering ur det luftfartygsregister där det är infört enligt Chicagokonventionen;
j) borgensförbindelse: överenskommelse varigenom en part förbinder sig som borgensman eller lämnar en garanti;
k) borgensman: en person som för att sörja för det rätta fullgörandet av varje förpliktelse gentemot en borgenär enligt ett pantavtal eller annat avtal, går i borgen eller ställer eller låter utfärda en garanti, letter of credit eller varje annan form av kreditförsäkring;
l) helikopter: ett luftfartyg (med undantag av sådana som används av militär, tull eller polis) som hålls flygande huvudsakligen genom den lyftkraft som genereras av en eller flera rotorer på väsentligen vertikala axlar och som är typcertifierade av en behörig luftfartsmyndighet för:
(i) transport av minst fem (5) personer inklusive besättning;
eller
(ii) transport av frakt över 450 kg, tillsammans med all utrustning och alla tillbehör, delar och utrustningar
(inklusive rotorer) som är installerade, inbyggda eller fastsatta i detta samt alla handböcker, uppgifter och loggböcker som har samband med dessa;
m) insolvenssituation:
(i) inledande av insolvensförfaranden; eller
(ii) gäldenärens besked om inställelse av betalningar, eller faktisk inställelse av betalningar i de fall borgenären är förhindrad att inleda ett insolvensförfarande mot gäldenären eller att vidta åtgärder enligt Konventionen enligt lag eller efter en statlig åtgärd;
n) stat med primär jurisdiktion över insolvensärende:
fördragsslutande stat där gäldenären har sina huvudsakliga intressen, vilken för detta ändamål ska anses vara den ort där gäldenären har sin registrerade adress eller säte, eller, om sådant saknas, den stat där bolaget är bildat, om inte annat påvisas;
o) registreringsmyndighet: avser den nationella myndighet, eller registreringsmyndighet för gemensamhetsbeteckningar, som har till uppgift att föra ett register över luftfartyg i en fördragsslutande stat och som ansvarar för registrering och avregistrering av luftfartyg i enlighet med Chicagokonventionen; och
p) registreringsstat: när det gäller luftfartyg, den stat vars nationella luftfartygsregister används för att registrera ett luftfartyg eller den stat där den registreringsmyndighet som har till uppgift att föra luftfartygsregistret är belägen.
Artikel II
Konventionens tillämpning på luftfartsobjekt
1. Konventionen ska tillämpas på luftfartsobjekt enligt bestämmelserna i det här Protokollet.
2. Konventionen och det här Protokollet ska benämnas Konventionen om internationella säkerhetsrätter i lösa saker såsom denna är tilllämplig på luftfartsobjekt.
Artikel III
Konventionens tillämpning på försäljning
Följande bestämmelser i Konventionen ska tilllämpas som om hänvisningarna till ett avtal varigenom en internationell säkerhetsrätt bildas eller tillhandahålls vore hänvisningar till ett försäljningsavtal, och som om hänvisningarna till en internationell säkerhetsrätt, en framtida internationell säkerhetsrätt, gäldenären och borgenären vore hänvisningar till en försäljning, en framtida försäljning, samt säljaren respektive köparen:
Artiklarna 3 och 4;
Artikel 16(1)(a);
Artikel 19(4);
Artikel 20(1) (när det gäller registrering av ett försäljningsavtal eller ett avtal om en framtida försäljning);
Artikel 25(2) (när det gäller en framtida försäljning); och
Artikel 30.
Dessutom ska de allmänna bestämmelserna i artikel 1, artikel 5, kapitel IV till VII, artikel 29 (med undantag av artikel 29(3) som ersätts av artikel XIV(1) och (2)), kapitel X, kapitel XII (med undantag av artikel 43), kapitel XIII och kapitel XIV (med undantag av artikel 60) tilllämpas på försäljningsavtal och avtal om framtida försäljning.
Artikel IV
Tillämpningsområde
1. Utan att det påverkar tillämpningen av artikel 3(1) i Konventionen, ska Konventionen också tillämpas på helikoptrar och luftfartygsskrov tillhörande ett luftfartyg som är införda i ett luftfartygsregister i en fördragsslutande stat.
Om registreringen har skett enligt ett avtal om registrering av luftfartyget ska registreringen anses ha skett vid tidpunkten för avtalet.
2. För definitionen av "intern transaktion" i artikel 1 i Konventionen ska:
a) ett luftfartygsskrov anses finnas i registreringsstaten för det luftfartyg det tillhör;
b) en flygmotor anses finnas i registreringsstaten för det luftfartyg i vilket den är installerad eller, om den inte är installerad i något luftfartyg, i den stat där den faktiskt befinner sig; och
c) en helikopter anses finnas i den stat där den är registrerad;
vid tidpunkten för ingående av avtalet varigenom den aktuella säkerhetsrätten uppkommer eller tillhandahålls.
3. Parterna kan genom skriftligt avtal undanta tillämpligheten av artikel XI och, såvitt avser mellanhavandena dem emellan, avvika från eller ändra verkan av bestämmelserna i det här Protokollet med undantag för artiklarna IX(2)-(4).
Artikel V
Formkrav, verkan och registrering avseende försäljningsavtal
 1. För tillämpningen av det här Protokollet, avses med försäljningsavtal ett avtal som:
a) ingås skriftligen;
b) gäller ett luftfartsobjekt över vilken säljaren har möjlighet att förfoga över; och
c) möjliggör identifikation av luftfartsobjektet, i enlighet med det här Protokollet.
2. Ett försäljningsavtal överför säljarens rätt avseende luftfartsobjektet till köparen i enlighet med avtalsvillkoren.
3. Registreringen av ett försäljningsavtal ska gälla på obestämd tid. Registreringen av en framtida försäljning ska fortsätta att gälla till dess att den upphävs eller, i förekommande fall, till den tidsperiod som anges i registreringen löpt ut.
Artikel VI
Företrädares befogenheter
En person får ingå ett avtal, eller ett försäljningsavtal, och registrera en internationell säkerhetsrätt i, eller en försäljning av, ett luftfartsobjekt i egenskap av ombud, förvaltare eller annan form av företrädare. I den egenskapen ska personen äga rätt att åberopa de rättigheter och den säkerhetsrätt som följer av Konventionen.
Artikel VII
Beskrivning av luftfartsobjekt
En beskrivning av ett luftfartsobjekt som innefattar tillverkarens serienummer, tillverkarens namn samt modellbeteckningen är nödvändig och tillräcklig för identifiering av objektet vid tillämpningen av artikel 7(c) i Konventionen och artikel V(1)(c) i det här Protokollet.
Artikel VIII
Val av tillämplig lag
1. Denna artikel är tillämplig endast om en fördragsslutande stat har avgett en förklaring enligt artikel XXX (1).
2. Parterna i ett avtal, ett försäljningsavtal, eller ett avtal om borgensförbindelse eller efterställning får enas om vilken lag som, helt eller delvis, ska vara tillämplig på avtalsvillkoren.
3. Om inte annat har avtalats ska hänvisningen i föregående punkt till den lag som parterna valt, avse den utsedda statens nationella rättsregler eller, om den staten omfattar flera territoriella områden, lagen i det utsedda territoriella området.
Kapitel II
Åtgärder vid avtalsbrott, prioritet och överlåtelser
Artikel IX
Ändring av bestämmelser om åtgärder vid avtalsbrott
1. Utöver de åtgärder som anges i kapitel III i Konventionen, och förutsatt att gäldenären vid något tillfälle har lämnat sitt samtycke därtill, får borgenären, i situationer som har specificerats i det kapitlet:
a) låta avregistrera luftfartyget; och
b) låta exportera och föra ut luftfartsobjektet från det territorium där egendomen finns.
2. Borgenären får inte genomföra åtgärderna som har specificerats i föregående punkt utan skriftligt samtycke från innehavare av registrerade säkerhetsrätter med bättre prioritet än borgenärens.
3. Artikel 8(3) i Konventionen ska inte gälla luftfartsobjekt. Varje åtgärd som anges i Konventionen och som avser ett luftfartsobjekt, ska genomföras på ett affärsmässigt skäligt sätt. En åtgärd ska anses vara genomförd på ett affärsmässigt skäligt sätt när den genomförs i överensstämmelse med en bestämmelse i avtalet, utom i de fall när bestämmelsen är uppenbart oskälig.
4. En säkerhetshavare som lämnar berörda personer ett skriftligt meddelande minst tio arbetsdagar före planerad försäljning eller leasing ska anses ha uppfyllt kravet på
"skälig tid" i artikel 8(4) i Konventionen. Detta ska dock inte hindra en säkerhetshavare och en säkerhetsställare eller en borgensman från att avtala om att meddelande ska lämnas tidigare.
5. Med förbehåll för lagar och författningar avseende luftfartssäkerhet, ska registreringsmyndigheten i en fördragsslutande stat hörsamma en framställan om avregistrering och export om:
a) framställan i vederbörlig ordning har lämnats av en bemyndigad part enligt en registrerad oåterkallelig fullmakt gällande avregistrering och export; och om
b) den bemyndigade parten, om registermyndigheten så begär, kan styrka att alla registrerade säkerhetsrätter, med prioritet före den borgenär som representeras, har frisläppts eller att innehavarna av dessa säkerhetsrätter har samtyckt till avregistrering och export.
6. En säkerhetshavare som avser att ansöka om avregistrering och export av ett luftfartyg enligt punkt 1 i annat fall än genom verkställighet av ett domstolsavgörande, ska i skälig tid skriftligen ge information om kommande avregistreringen och exporten till:
a) de berörda personer som avses i artikel 1(m)(i) och (ii) i Konventionen; samt
b) de berörda personer som avses i Konventionens artikel 1(m)(iii), vilka i skälig tid före avregistreringen och exporten har underrättat säkerhetshavaren om sina rättigheter.
Artikel X
Ändring av bestämmelserna om interimistiska åtgärder
1. Denna artikel ska vara tillämplig endast om en fördragsslutande stat har avgett förklaring enligt artikel XXX(2) och endast i den utsträckning som framgår av förklaringen.
2. För tillämpningen av artikel 13(1) i Konventionen ska uttrycket "skyndsamt", i samband med utverkandet av åtgärder, avses det antal arbetsdagar som anges i förklaringen från den fördragsslutande stat i vilken framställan har lämnats, räknat från dagen för inlämnandet av framställan.
3. Artikel 13(1) i Konventionen ska gälla med tillägget av följande bestämmelse omedelbart efter stycket (d):
"(e)försäljning och fördelning av inkomsterna från försäljningen, om gäldenären och borgenären uttryckligen kommer överens om detta",
och artikel 43(2) ska gälla med tillägget "och (e)" efter orden "artikel 13(1)(d)".
4. Äganderätt eller annan rätt som gäldenären har och som överförs till följd av en försäljning enligt den föregående punkten, är fri från andra säkerhetsrätter framför vilka borgenärens internationella säkerhetsrätt har prioritet enligt bestämmelserna i artikel 29 i Konventionen.
5. Borgenären och gäldenären eller varje annan berörd person får skriftligen avtala om att undanta tillämpningen av artikel 13(2) i Konventionen.
6. Vad gäller åtgärderna i artikel IX(1):
a) ska de göras tillgängliga av registreringsmyndigheten och eventuella andra administrativa myndigheter, i en fördragsslutande stat inom fem arbetsdagar efter den dag då borgenären meddelar sådana myndigheter att den åtgärd som avses i artikel IX(1) har beviljats eller, om åtgärden har beviljats av en utländsk domstol, har erkänts i den fördragsslutande staten, och borgenären har tillstånd att utverka dessa åtgärder enligt Konventionen; och
b) de behöriga myndigheterna ska skyndsamt erbjuda borgenären samarbete och bistånd vid vidtagandet av sådana åtgärderna i enlighet med tillämpliga lagar och förordningar gällande luftfartssäkerhet.
7. Punkterna 2 och 6 ska inte påverka tilllämpligheten av lagar och förordningar avseende luftfartssäkerhet.
Artikel XI
Åtgärder vid insolvens
1. Denna artikel ska vara tilllämplig endast om en fördragsslutande stat som har primär jurisdiktion över ett insolvensärende har avgett förklaring enligt artikel XXX(3).
Alternativ A
2. När en insolvenssituation uppstår ska insolvensförvaltaren eller, alltefter omständligheterna, gäldenären, med förbehåll för punkt 7, överlämna luftfartsobjektet till borgenären senast vid den första av tidpunkterna nedan:
a) när väntetiden löpt ut; och
b) vid den tidpunkt då borgenären skulle ha rätt att ta luftfartsobjektet i besittning om denna artikel inte var tillämplig.
3. Vid tillämpningen av denna artikel avses med "väntetid"
den tidsfrist som anges i en förklaring från den fördragsslutande staten med primär jurisdiktion över insolvensärendet.
4. Hänvisningarna till "insolvensförvaltaren" i denna artikel avser personen i dess officiella kapacitet och inte sin personliga roll.
5. Om inte och så länge borgenären inte har haft möjlighet att ta besittning enligt punkt 2:
a) ska insolvensförvaltaren eller, alltefter omständigheterna, gäldenären vidta åtgärder i avsikt att bevara luftfartsobjektet och upprätthålla det och dess värde i enlighet med avtalet; och
b) ska borgenären ha rätt att ansöka om samtliga andra interimistiska åtgärder som är tillgängliga enligt tilllämplig lag.
6. Stycke (a) under föregående punkt ska inte utesluta att luftfartsobjektet nyttjas enligt avtal som träffats i syfte att bevara luftfartsobjektet, underhålla det och upprätthålla dess värde.
7. Insolvensförvaltaren eller, alltefter omständigheterna, gäldenären får behålla besittningsrätten till luftfartsobjektet om denne senast vid den tidpunkt som fastställs i punkt 2 har läkt alla andra avtalsbrott än de som består i att insolvensförfarande inletts och har förbundit sig att uppfylla alla framtida förpliktelser i enlighet med avtalet. En andra väntetid ska inte tilllämpas om dessa framtida förpliktelser inte uppfylls.
8. De åtgärder som avses i artikel IX(1):
a) ska göras tillgängliga av registreringsmyndigheten och, alltefter omständigheterna, de behöriga administrativa myndigheterna i den fördragsslutande staten, inom fem arbetsdagar efter den tidpunkt då borgenären har meddelat myndigheterna att borgenären har rätt att utverka åtgärderna i enlighet med Konventionen; och
b) de behöriga myndigheterna ska skyndsamt erbjuda borgenären samarbete och bistånd med genomförandet av åtgärderna i enlighet med de lagar och andra författningar som är tilllämpliga när det gäller luftfartssäkerhet.
9. Inga åtgärder som tillåts av Konventionen eller Protokollet, ska kunna förhindras eller försenas efter den tidpunkt som fastställs i punkt 2.
10. Ingen av gäldenärens förpliktelser enligt avtalet får ändras utan borgenärens samtycke.
11. Inget i den föregående punkten ska tolkas som att den inskränker insolvensförvaltarens eventuella befogenhet att enligt tillämplig lag säga upp avtalet.
12. Ingen rättighet och ingen säkerhetsrätt, med undantag av legala rättigheter eller säkerhetsrätter som tillhör en kategori som omfattas av en förklaring enligt artikel 39(1) i Konventionen, ska i samband med insolvensförfarandena ha företräde framför de säkerhetsrätter som har registrerats.
13. Konventionen, som den har modifierats genom artikel IX i det här Protokollet, ska tilllämpas vid genomförandet av samtliga åtgärder i denna artikel.
Alternativ B
2. När en insolvenssituation uppstår, ska insolvensförvaltaren eller, alltefter omständigheterna, gäldenären på begäran av borgenären, inom den tidsfrist som anges i en förklaring som avgetts av en fördragsslutande stat enligt artikel XXX(3), meddela borgenären om gäldenären:
a) kommer att läka alla avtalsbrott, bortsett från det som består i att insolvensförfarandet inletts, och förbinda sig att uppfylla alla framtida förpliktelser i enlighet med avtalet och därtill hörande dokument; eller
b) kommer att möjliggöra för borgenären att ta luftfartsobjektet i besittning i enlighet med tillämplig lag.
3. Enligt den lag som är tilllämplig enligt stycket (b) i föregående punkt, får domstolen begära att kompletterande åtgärder ska vidtas eller att ytterligare säkerhetsrätt ska ställas.
4. Borgenären ska styrka sin fordran och visa att registrering av den internationella säkerhetsrätten skett.
5. Om insolvensförvaltaren eller, alltefter omständigheterna, gäldenären inte lämnar meddelande till borgenären i enlighet med punkt 2, eller om insolvensförvaltaren eller gäldenären har förklarat att borgenären kommer att kunna ta luftfartsobjektet i besittning men så inte sker, får domstolen låta borgenären ta luftfartsobjektet i besittning på de villkor som domstolen fastställer samt får domstolen kräva att kompletterande åtgärder ska vidtas eller ytterligare säkerhet ställas.
6. Luftfartsobjektet får inte säljas så länge domstolen inte fattat beslut om fordran och den internationella säkerhetsrätten.
Artikel XII
Bistånd vid insolvens
1. Denna artikel ska endast tillämpas om en fördragsslutande stat avgett en förklaring enligt artikel XXX(1).
2. Domstolarna i en fördragsslutande stat i vilken luftfartsobjektet finns, ska i överensstämmelse med den fördragsslutande statens lag så långt det är möjligt samarbeta med de utländska domstolarna och utländska insolvensförvaltarna vid tillämpningen av bestämmelserna i artikel XI.
Artikel XIII
Fullmakt för avregistrering och export
1. Denna artikel ska endast vara tilllämplig om en fördragsslutande stat har avgett en förklaring enligt artikel XXX(1).
2. Om gäldenären har utfärdat en oåterkallelig fullmakt för avregistrering och export, vilken i allt väsentligt är följer bilagan till Protokollet, och har överlämnat fullmakten för registrering till registreringsmyndigheten, ska fullmakten registreras.
3. Den person för vilken fullmakten är utställd (den
"bemyndigade parten") eller den person som den bemyndigande parten utser, ska vara den enda person som har rätt att vidta de åtgärder som anges i artikel IX(1) och får göra så endast i överensstämmelse med fullmakten och tilllämpliga lagar och förordningar avseende luftfartssäkerhet. Gäldenären får inte återkalla fullmakten utan skriftligt samtycke från den bemyndigade parten. Registreringsmyndigheten ska, på begäran av den bemyndigade parten, ta bort en fullmakt som har införts i registret.
4. Registreringsmyndigheten och övriga administrativa myndigheter i de fördragsslutande staterna ska skyndsamt samarbeta med och ge stöd till den bemyndigade parten när denne vidtar åtgärder som anges i artikel IX.
Artikel XIV
Ändring av bestämmelser om prioritet
1. En köpare av ett luftfartsobjekt genom ett registrerat köp förvärvar rätten till det objektet fritt från en senare registrerad säkerhetsrätt och från en icke registrerad säkerhetsrätt, även om köparen har kännedom om den icke registrerade säkerhetsrätten.
2. En köpare av ett luftfartsobjekt förvärvar rätten till det objektet med förbehåll för en säkerhetsrätt som var registrerad vid tidpunkten för förvärvet.
3. Äganderätten till eller en annan rätt eller säkerhetsrätt i en flygmotor, ska inte påverkas av om motorn monteras i eller från ett luftfartyg.
4. Artikel 29(7) i Konventionen ska tillämpas på ett föremål, annat än ett objekt, som är monterat i ett flygplansskrov, en flygmotor eller en helikopter.
Artikel XV
Ändring av bestämmelserna om överlåtelser
Artikel 33(1) i Konventionen ska tillämpas med följande tillägg omedelbart efter stycket (b):
"och c) gäldenären skriftligen har samtyckt, oavsett om samtycket har lämnats innan överlåtelsen ägde rum eller inte, och oavsett om förvärvaren är identifierad eller inte."
Artikel XVI
Bestämmelser om gäldenären
1. Så länge avtalsbrott enligt artikel 11 i Konventionen inte föreligger, har gäldenären rätt att förfoga över och använda egendomen i överensstämmelse med avtalsvillkoren, i förhållande till:
a) dess borgenärer och innehavaren av en säkerhetsrätt som gäldenären är fri från enligt artikel 29(4) i Konventionen, eller i egenskap av köpare, enligt artikel XIV(1) i det här Protokollet, om och i den utsträckning gäldenären inte har samtyckt till något annat; och
b) innehavaren av en säkerhetsrätt till vilken gäldenärens rätt är underordnad i enlighet med artikel 29(4) i Konventionen, eller i egenskap av köpare, enligt artikel XIV(2) i det här Protokollet, men endast i den utsträckning som innehavaren har samtyckt till detta.
2. Inget i Konventionen eller det här Protokollet ska påverka borgenärens ansvar vid avtalsbrott enligt tillämplig lag, såvida det avtalet avser ett luftfartsobjekt.
Kapitel III
Bestämmelser om registrering av internationella säkerhetsrätter i luftfartsobjekt
Artikel XVII
Tillsynsmyndigheten och registratorn
1. Tillsynsmyndigheten ska vara det internationella organ som utses genom en resolution som antas av diplomatkonferensen sammankallad för antagande av en konvention om lösa saker och ett luftfartsprotokoll.
2. Om det internationella organ som avses i föregående punkt inte kan eller är berett att fungera som tillsynsmyndighet, ska en konferens mellan de undertecknande och fördragsslutande staterna sammankallas för att utse en annan tillsynsmyndighet.
3. Tillsynsmyndigheten samt dess ledning och anställda ska åtnjuta sådan immunitet mot rättsliga och administrativa förfaranden, som ges enligt de bestämmelser som är tilllämpliga på dem i egenskap av internationellt organ eller på annan grund.
4. Tillsynsmyndigheten får inrätta en expertkommitté, vars ledamöter ska utses bland de personer som föreslagits av de undertecknande och fördragsslutande staterna, och som har erforderlig kompetens och erfarenhet, och ge denna i uppgift att bistå tillsynsmyndigheten i dess uppgifter.
5. Den första registratorn ska sörja för driften av det internationella registret under en tid av fem år från det dag då det här Protokollet träder i kraft. Därefter ska tillsynsmyndigheten vart femte år utnämna en ny registrator eller förlänga den dåvarande registratorns mandat.
Artikel XVIII
Ett första regelverk
Det första regelverket ska upprättas av tillsynsmyndigheten med verkan från den dag då det här Protokollet träder i kraft.
Artikel XIX
Utseende av kontaktpunkter
1. Med förbehåll för punkt 2 kan en fördragsslutande stat när som helst utse ett eller flera organ inom sitt territorium till kontaktpunkt eller kontaktpunkter, genom vilken eller vilka det ska eller får till det internationella registret överföras information som krävs för registrering, med undantag för registrering av ett meddelande om en nationell säkerhetsrätt eller om en rättighet eller säkerhetsrätt enligt artikel 40 på grundval av lagen i en annan stat.
2. Vid utseende av kontaktpunkt enligt föregående punkt är det tillåtet, men inte obligatoriskt, att utse en eller flera kontaktpunkter för uppgifter gällande registrering av flygmotorer.
Artikel XX
Ytterligare ändringar av bestämmelserna om registret
1. För tillämpningen av artikel 19(6) i Konventionen ska sökkriterierna för ett luftfartsobjekt vara tillverkarens namn och serienummer samt modellbeteckningen, tillsammans med de kompletterande uppgifter som behövs för identifiering.
Sådana kompletterande uppgifter ska specificeras i regelverket.
2. För tillämpningen av artikel 25(2) i Konventionen och under de omständigheter som anges däri, ska innehavaren av en registrerad framtida internationell säkerhetsrätt eller av en registrerad framtida överlåtelse av en internationell säkerhetsrätt, eller den person för vilken en framtida försäljning har registrerats, vidta åtgärder för att upphäva registreringen senast fem arbetsdagar efter mottagandet av en framställan enligt punkten.
3. Avgifterna som anges i artikel 17(2)(h) i Konventionen ska fastställas så att de täcker skäliga kostnader för inrättande, drift och reglering av det internationella registret och skäliga kostnader för tillsynsmyndighetens verksamhet vid utövandet av de åligganden som anges i artikel 17(2) i Konventionen.
4. De centrala funktionerna i det internationella registret ska styras och administreras dygnet runt av registratorn. De olika kontaktpunkterna ska vara aktiva minst under den kontorstid som tillämpas inom respektive territorium.
5. Försäkringsbeloppet eller den ekonomiska garantin som föreskrivs enligt artikel 28(4) i Konventionen ska, för varje skadehändelse, inte understiga det högsta värdet av ett luftfartsobjekt, så som det har fastställts av tillsynsmyndigheten.
6. Inget i Konventionen ska hindra registratorn från att kan teckna försäkring eller garanti till täckande av sådana skadehändelser för vilka registratorn inte är ansvarig enligt artikel 28 i Konventionen.
Kapitel IV
Jurisdiktion
Artikel XXI
Ändring av bestämmelserna om jurisdiktion
För tillämpningen av artikel 43 i Konventionen och med förbehåll för artikel 42 i Konventionen, har en domstol i en fördragsslutande stat också jurisdiktion om objektet är en helikopter eller ett luftfartygsskrov tillhörande ett luftfartyg, där staten är registreringsstat.
Artikel XXII
Dispensklausul om immunitet
1. Med förbehåll för punkt 2 ska en dispensklausul om immunitet mot rättsliga förfaranden gentemot domstolarna som anges i artikel 42 eller artikel 43 i Konventionen, eller i fråga om verkställighet av rättigheter och säkerhetsrätter avseende ett luftfartsobjekt enligt Konventionen, vara bindande och, om övriga villkor för jurisdiktion och verkställighet är uppfyllda, medföra jurisdiktion och tillåta verkställighet beroende på omständigheterna.
2. En dispensklausul enligt föregående punkt måste vara skriftlig och innehålla en beskrivning av luftfartsobjektet.
Kapitel V
Förhållande till andra konventioner
Artikel XXIII
Förhållande till Konventionen rörande internationellt erkännande av rätt till luftfartyg
Konventionen har, för en fördragsslutande stat som är part till Konventionen rörande internationellt erkännande av rätt till luftfartyg, undertecknad i Genève den 19 juni 1948, företräde i förhållande till sistnämnda konvention, i den utsträckning det rör luftfartyg, enligt definitionen i det här Protokollet, och luftfartsobjektet. Vad gäller rättigheter eller säkerhetsrätter som inte omfattas av eller berörs av Konventionen, har inte Konventionen företräde framför Genèvekonventionen.
Artikel XXIV
Förhållande till Konventionen rörande fastställande av vissa gemensamma bestämmelser i fråga om kvarstad å luftfartyg
1. Konventionen har, för en fördragsslutande stat som är part till Konventionen rörande fastställande av vissa gemensamma bestämmelser i fråga om kvarstad å luftfartyg, undertecknad i Rom den 29 maj 1933, företräde i förhållande till sistnämnda konvention, i den utsträckning det rör luftfartyg enligt definitionen i det här Protokollet.
2. En fördragsslutande stat som är part i Konvention får vid ratificeringen, godtagandet eller godkännandet av det här Protokollet, eller vid anslutningen till detsamma, förklara att staten inte ska tillämpa denna artikel.
Artikel XXV
Förhållande till Unidroits Konvention om internationell finansiell leasing
Konventionen har företräde framför Unidroits Konvention om internationell finansiell leasing, undertecknad i Ottawa den 28 maj 1988, i den utsträckning det den konventionen är tilllämplig på luftfartsobjekt.
Kapitel VI
Slutbestämmelser
Artikel XXVI
Undertecknande, ratifikation, godtagande, godkännande eller anslutning
1. Det här Protokollet är öppet för undertecknande i Kapstaden den 16 november 2001 för stater som deltar i diplomatkonferensen i Kapstaden den 29 oktober till den 16 november 2001 för antagande av en konvention avseende lösa saker och ett luftfartsprotokoll. Efter den 16 november 2001 ska det här Protokollet vara öppet för undertecknande av alla stater vid sätet för Internationella institutet för harmonisering av privaträtten (Unidroit) i Rom tills det träder i kraft i enlighet med artikel XXVIII.
2. Det här Protokollet ska ratificeras, godtas eller godkännas av de stater som har undertecknat det.
3. En stat som inte undertecknar Protokollet får när som helst därefter ansluta sig till det.
4. Ratifikation, godtagande, godkännande eller anslutning sker genom deponering av ett formellt instrument härom hos depositarien.
5. En stat får inte bli part till det här Protokollet om det inte också är eller blir part till Konventionen.
Artikel XXVII
Regionala organisationer för ekonomisk integration
1. En regional organisation för ekonomisk integration som utgörs av suveräna stater och har kompetens inom vissa områden som omfattas av det här Protokollet får på samma sätt underteckna, godta och godkänna Protokollet eller ansluta sig till det. Den regionala organisationen för ekonomiskt integration ska då ha samma rättigheter och skyldigheter som en fördragsslutande stat, i den mån organisationen har kompetens på områden som omfattas av Protokollet. I de fall antalet fördragsslutande stater är relevant i det här Protokollet, ska den regionala organisationen för ekonomisk integration inte räknas som en fördragsslutande stat utöver de medlemsstater som är fördragsslutande stater.
2.  undertecknandet, godtagandet, godkännandet eller anslutningen ska den regionala organisationen för ekonomisk integration för depositarien avge en förklaring med angivandet av där de områden som omfattas av Protokollet, för vilka medlemsstaterna har överfört sin kompetens till organisationen. Den regionala organisationen ska utan dröjsmål underrätta depositarien om ändringar i den kompetensfördelning, inklusive ny kompetens som överförts, som anges i förklaringen.
3. Varje hänvisning till "fördragsslutande stat" eller
"fördragsslutande stater" eller "stat som är part" eller
"stater som är parter" i det här Protokollet ska gälla på samma sätt för en regional organisation för ekonomisk integration, när sammanhanget så kräver.
Artikel XXVIII
Ikraftträdande
1. Det här Protokollet träder i kraft den första dagen i den månad som följer efter det att tre månader förflutit efter den dag, då det åttonde ratifikations-, godtagande-, godkännande- eller anslutningsinstrumentet deponerats, mellan de stater som har deponerat sådana instrument.
2. För andra stater träder det här Protokollet i kraft den första dagen i den månad som följer efter det att tre månader förflutit efter den dag då statens ratifikations-, godtagande-godkännande- eller anslutningsinstrumentet deponerades.
Artikel XXIX
Territoriella områden
1. Om en fördragsslutande stat har territoriella områden i vilka olika rättssystem tilllämpas på områden som regleras i det här Protokollet, får det vid ratifikationen, godtagandet, godkännandet eller anslutningen förklara att det här Protokollet ska tilllämpas i alla dess territoriella områden eller endast i någon eller några av dessa, och staten får när som helst ändra förklaringen genom att avge en ny förklaring.
2. I en sådan förklaring ska uttryckligen anges inom vilka territoriella områden Protokollet ska tillämpas.
3. Om en fördragsslutande stat inte har avgett någon förklaring enligt punkt 1, ska det här Protokollet tillämpas på alla territoriella områden i den staten.
4. Om en fördragsslutande stat utsträcker tillämpningen av Protokollet till att omfatta en eller flera av sina territoriella områden, får de förklaringar som tillåts enligt Protokollet avges i fråga om var och en av dessa territoriella områden och de avgivna förklaringarna kan ha olika lydelser för olika territoriella områden.
5. Om Protokollet enligt en förklaring som avgivits enligt punkt 1 ska tillämpas på en eller flera territoriella områden i en fördragsslutande stat:
a) ska gäldenären anses finnas i en fördragsslutande stat endast om gäldenären har bildats enligt en lag som är i kraft i ett territoriellt område på vilken Konventionen och Protokollet ska tillämpas, eller har sitt säte, huvudkontor, driftställe eller hemvist i ett territoriellt område där Konventionen och det här Protokollet är tillämpligt,
b) ska varje hänvisning till var objektet befinner sig i en fördragsslutande stat avse var objektet befinner sig i ett territoriellt område där Konventionen och det här Protokollet är tillämpligt; och
c) ska varje hänvisning till administrativa myndigheter i den fördragsslutande stat uppfattas som de behöriga administrativa myndigheterna i ett territoriellt område där Konventionen och det här Protokollet ska tilllämpas, och varje hänvisning till det nationella registret eller registermyndigheten i denna fördragsslutande stat ska uppfattas som luftfartygsregistret eller registermyndigheten i det territoriella området eller de territoriella områden där Konventionen och det här Protokollet är tillämpligt.
Artikel XXX
Förklaringar som rör vissa bestämmelser
1. En fördragsslutande stat får vid ratifikationen, godtagandet eller godkännandet av det här Protokollet eller anslutningen till detta, förklara att staten kommer att tillämpa en eller flera av artiklarna VIII, XII och XIII i det här Protokollet.
2. En fördragsslutande stat får vid ratifikationen, godtagandet eller godkännandet av Protokollet eller anslutningen till detta förklara att staten helt eller delvis kommer att tillämpa artikel X i det här Protokollet. Om staten avger denna förklaring ska staten med avseende artikel X(2) ange vilken tidsfrist som föreskrivs.
3. En fördragsslutande stat får vid ratifikationen, godtagandet eller godkännandet av Protokollet eller anslutningen till detta förklara att den kommer att tillämpa alternativ A eller alternativ B i artikel XI i sin helhet och ska, i så fall, ange för vilka, om några, typer av insolvensförfaranden som den kommer att tilllämpa alternativ A och för vilka, om några typer av insolvensförfaranden som den kommer att tilllämpa alternativ B. En fördragsslutande stat som avger en förklaring enligt denna punkt ska specificera den tidsfrist som föreskrivs i artikel XI.
4. Domstolarna i de fördragsslutande staterna ska tillämpa artikel XI i enlighet med den förklaring som har avgetts av den fördragsslutande stat som har primär jurisdiktion för insolvensförfaranden.
5. En fördragsslutande stat får vid ratifikationen, godtagandet eller godkännandet av Protokollet eller anslutningen till detta förklara att den helt eller delvis inte kommer att tillämpa artikel XXI. I förklaringen ska anges under vilka förhållanden den relevanta artikeln kommer att tillämpas, om den skulle tilllämpas endast delvis, eller vilka andra preliminära åtgärder som kommer att tillämpas.
Artikel XXXI
Förklaringar enligt Konventionen
De förklaringar som avgetts enligt Konventionen, omfattande de som avgetts enligt artiklarna 39, 40, 50, 53, 54, 55, 57, 58 och 60 i Konventionen, ska också anses ha avgetts enligt Protokollet, om inte annat anges.
Artikel XXXII
Reservationer och förklaringar
1. Ingen reservation får göras mot det här Protokollet, men förklaringar som är tillåtna enligt artiklarna XXIV, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXIII och XXXIV får avges i enlighet med dessa bestämmelser.
2. Alla förklaringar eller efterföljande förklaringar eller alla återkallanden av förklaringar som gjorts enligt det här Protokollet ska anmälas skriftligen till depositarien.
Artikel XXXIII
Efterföljande förklaringar
1. En stat som är part får avge en efterföljande förklaring, med undantag av förklaringar som får avges i enlighet med artikel XXXI enligt artikel 60 i Konventionen, när som helst från och med dagen för det här Protokollets ikraftträdande i förhållande till staten, genom en anmälan därom till depositarien.
2. Varje sådan efterföljande förklaring får verkan den första dagen i den månad som följer efter det att sex månader förflutit från och med den dag då depositarien mottog anmälan. Om det i anmälan anges att förklaringen ska få verkan först efter en längre tid, ska förklaringen få verkan när den tid som angetts har förflutit efter det att depositarien mottog anmälan.
3. Trots föregående stycken ska det här Protokollet fortsätta att tillämpas som om en sådan efterföljande förklaring inte har avgetts i fråga om alla rättigheter och säkerhetsrätter som uppkommit före den dag då en sådan efterföljande förklaring fick verkan.
Artikel XXXIV
Återkallande av förklaringar
1. Varje stat som är part och har avgett en förklaring enligt det här Protokollet får, med undantag för en förklaring som avgetts i överensstämmelse med artikel XXXI enligt artikel 60 i Konventionen, när som helst återkalla förklaringen genom en anmälan därom till depositarien. Ett sådant återkallande får verkan den första dagen i den månad som följer efter det att sex månader har förflutit från den dag då depositarien mottog anmälan.
2. Trots föregående stycke ska det här Protokollet fortsätta att tillämpas som om ingen återkallelse av förklaringen hade gjorts, i fråga om alla rättigheter och säkerhetsrätt som uppkommit före den dag då återkallandet fick verkan.
Artikel XXXV
Uppsägning
1. Varje stat som är part får säga upp det här Protokollet genom skriftlig anmälan till depositarien.
2. En sådan uppsägning får verkan den första dagen i den månad som följer efter det att tolv månader förflutit från den dag då depositarien mottog anmälan.
3. Trots föregående stycken ska det här Protokollet fortsätta att tillämpas, som om en sådan uppsägning inte har skett, i fråga om alla rättigheter och säkerhetsrätter som uppkommit före den dag då uppsägningen fick verkan.
Artikel XXXVI
Konferenser för utvärdering, ändringar och därtill hörande frågor
1. I samråd med tillsynsmyndigheten ska depositarien varje år, eller vid annat tillfälle om omständigheterna kräver, utarbeta rapporter riktade till de stater som är parter om hur den internationella ordning som inrättats i Konventionen, i dess enligt Protokollet ändrade lydelse, fungerar i praktiken. Depositarien ska utarbeta rapporterna med beaktande av tillsynsmyndighetens rapporter om driften av det internationella registreringssystemet.
2. På begäran av minst tjugofem procent av de stater som är parter, ska depositarien i samråd med tillsynsmyndigheten anordna återkommande utvärderingskonferenser för genomgång av:
a) hur Konventionen, i dess enligt Protokollet ändrade lydelse, tillämpas i praktiken och i vilken grad finansiering mot säkerhetsrätt i tillgångar och finansiell leasing av egendom som faller inom tilllämpningsområdet faktiskt underlättas genom Konventionen;
b) hur bestämmelserna i Protokollet och i regelverket tolkas och tillämpas;
c) hur det internationella inskrivningsregistrets, registratorns verksamhet och tillsynsmyndighetens tillsyn över registratorn fungerar, på grundval av tillsynsmyndighetens rapporter; och
d) huruvida Protokollet eller bestämmelserna om det internationella registret bör justeras.
3. Varje ändring av Protokollet måste godkännas med minst två tredjedels majoritet av de stater som är parter och som deltar vid konferensen enligt föregående stycke, och ändringen träder sedan i kraft i förhållande till de stater som har ratificerat, godtagit eller godkänt ändringen, efter det att den ratificerats, godtagits eller godkänts av åtta stater i enlighet med bestämmelserna i artikel XXVIII om Protokollets ikraftträdande.
Artikel XXXVII
Depositarien och dennes uppgifter
1. Ratifikations-, godtagande-, godkännande- eller anslutningsinstrument ska deponeras vid Internationella institutet för harmonisering av privaträtten (Unidroit), nedan kallad depositarien.
2. Depositarien ska
a) underrätta alla fördragsslutande stater:
(i) om varje nytt undertecknande eller deponering av ratifikations-, godtagande-, godkännande- eller anslutningsinstrument och om datum för detta undertecknande eller denna deponering;
(ii) om datumet för Protokollets ikraftträdande;
(iii) om varje förklaring som avges enligt Protokollet samt om datum för förklaringen;
(iv) om varje återkallande eller ändring av förklaringar, samt om datum för sådant återkallande eller sådan ändring;
och
(v) om varje anmälan om uppsägning av Protokollet samt om datum för uppsägning och om den dag uppsägningen får verkan;
b) överlämna bestyrkta avskrifter av det här Protokollet till alla fördragsslutande stater;
c) förse tillsynsmyndigheten och registratorn med en kopia av varje ratifikations-, godtagande-, godkännande- eller anslutningsinstrument, tillsammans med datum för deponering av instrumenten, samt kopior av vare förklaring, eller återkallande eller ändring av en förklaring samt om anmälningar om uppsägning, tillsammans med datum för anmälan, så att uppgifterna är fullständiga och lättillgängliga; och
d) utföra de övriga uppgifter som normalt åligger depositarier.
Annex
FORM OF IRREVOCABLE DE-REGISTRATION AND EXPORT REQUEST AUTHORISATION
Annex referred to in Article XIII
[Insert Date]
To: [Insert Name of Registry Authority]
Re: Irrevocable De-Registration and Export Request Authorisation
The undersigned is the registered [operator] [owner]2 of the
[insert the airframe/ helicopter manufacturer name and model number] bearing manufacturers serial number [insert manufacturer's serial number] and registration [number]
[mark] [insert registration number/mark] (together with all installed, incorporated or attached accessories, parts and equipment, the "aircraft").
This instrument is an irrevocable de-registration and export request authorisation issued by the undersigned in favour of
[insert name of creditor] ("the authorised party") under the authority of Article XIII of the Protocol to the Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment on Matters specific to Aircraft Equipment. In accordance with that Article, the undersigned hereby requests:
(i) recognition that the authorised party or the person it certifies as its designee is the sole person entitled to:
a) procure the de-registration of the aircraft from the
[insert name of aircraft register] maintained by the [insert name of registry authority] for the purposes of Chapter III of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed at Chicago, on 7 December 1944, and
b) procure the export and physical transfer of the aircraft from [insert name of country]; and
(ii) confirmation that the authorised party or the person it certifies as its designee may take the action specified in clause (i) above on written demand without the consent of the undersigned and that, upon such demand, the authorities in
[insert name of country] shall co-operate with the authorised party with a view to the speedy completion of such action.
The rights in favour of the authorised party established by this instrument may not be revoked by the undersigned without the written consent of the authorised party.
Please acknowledge your agreement to this request and its terms by appropriate notation in the space provided below and lodging this instrument in [insert name of registry authority].
[insert name of operator/owner]
_________________________
Agreed to and lodged this
[insert date]
By: [insert name of signatory]
Its: [insert title of signatory]
_________________________
[insert relevant notational details]
Bilaga
FORMULÄR AVSEENDE OÅTERKALLELIG FULLMAKT FÖR AVREGISTRERING OCH EXPORT
Bilaga som avses i artikel XIII
[datumuppgift]
Adressat: [uppgift om registreringsmyndighetens namn]
Ärende: Oåterkalleligt fullmakt för avregistrering och export
Undertecknad är den registrerade [operatören] [ägaren] av
[ange namnet på tillverkaren och luftfartygs-/helikopterskrovmodellen], som har tillverkarens serienummer [ange nummer] och är registrerat som
[registreringsnummer] [beteckning] [ange registreringsnummer/beteckning] (och tillbehör, delar och utrustningar, som är installerade, inbyggda eller fastsatta i detta, nedan kallat luftfartyget).
Detta instrument utgör en oåterkalleligt fullmakt för avregistrering och export, utställt av undertecknad till
[ange borgenär] (nedan kallad den bemyndigade parten) i överensstämmelse med artikel XIII i protokollet om frågor som särskilt rör luftfartygsutrustning till konventionen om internationell säkerhetsrätt till flyttbar egendom.
Undertecknad begär i överensstämmelse med ovannämnda artikel om
(i) att den bemyndigade parten eller person som denne utser för ändamålet, ska erkännas som den enda person som är bemyndigad att
a) avregistrera luftfartyget i [ange luftfartygsregister], som förs av [ange registermyndighet] i enlighet med kapitel III i Konventionen om Internationell Civil Luftfart, undertecknad i Chicago den 7 december 1944, och
b) låta exportera och fysiskt överföra luftfartyget [från]
[ange landet],
(ii) att det bekräftas att den bemyndigade parten eller person som denne utser för ändamålet får vidta de åtgärder som anges i led i) ovan efter skriftlig framställan och utan undertecknades samtycke och att myndigheterna i [ange landet]
vid mottagandet av framställan samarbetar med den bemyndigade parten för att åtgärderna i fråga skyndsamt ska kunna verkställas.
De rättigheter som genom denna handling ges den bemyndigade parten kan inte återkallas av undertecknad utan den bemyndigade partens skriftliga samtycke.
Ni ombeds tillkännage att ni godtar denna fullmakt genom att på lämpligt sätt fylla i uppgifterna nedan i detta dokument samt deponera den hos [ange registermyndighet].
[operatörens/ägarens namn]
_________________________
Godkänt och deponerat den
[ange datum]
av: [namn och titel]
_________________________
[nödvändiga anmärkningar]
/Träder i kraft I:den dag som regeringen bestämmer/
Bilaga 3
LUXEMBOURG PROTOCOL TO THE CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL  INTERESTS IN MOBILE EQUIPMENT ON MATTERS SPECIFIC TO RAILWAY  ROLLING STOCK
THE STATES PARTIES TO THIS PROTOCOL
CONSIDERING it necessary to implement the Convention on  International Interests in Mobile Equipment (the 
"Convention") as it relates to railway rolling stock, in the  light of the purposes set out in the preamble to the  Convention,
MINDFUL of the need to adapt the Convention to meet the  particular requirements of railway rolling stock and their  finance,
HAVE AGREED upon the following provisions relating to railway  rolling stock:
Chapter I
Sphere of application and general provisions
Article I - Defined terms
1. In this Protocol, except where the context otherwise  requires, terms used in it have the meanings set out in the  Convention.
2. In this Protocol the following terms are employed with the  meanings set out below:
(a) "guarantee contract" means a contract entered into by a  person as guarantor;
(b) "guarantor" means a person who, for the purpose of  assuring performance of any obligations in favour of a  creditor secured by a security agreement or under an  agreement, gives or issues a suretyship or demand guarantee  or a standby letter of credit or any other form of credit  insurance;
(c) "insolvency-related event" means:
(i) the commencement of the insolvency proceedings; or
(ii) the declared intention to suspend or actual suspension  of payments by the debtor where the creditor's right to  institute insolvency proceedings against the debtor or to  exercise remedies under the Convention is prevented or  suspended by law or State action;
(d) "primary insolvency jurisdiction" means the Contracting  State in which the centre of the debtor's main interests is  situated, which for this purpose shall be deemed to be the  place of the debtor's statutory seat or, if there is none,  the place where the debtor is incorporated or formed, unless  proved otherwise;
(e) "railway rolling stock" means vehicles movable on a fixed  railway track or directly on, above or below a guideway,  together with traction systems, engines, brakes, axles,  bogies, pantographs, accessories and other components,  equipment and parts, in each case installed on or  incorporated in the vehicles, and together with all data,  manuals and records relating thereto.
Article II - Application of Convention as regards railway  rolling stock
1. The Convention shall apply in relation to railway rolling  stock as provided by the terms of this Protocol.
2. The Convention and this Protocol shall be known as the  Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment as  applied to railway rolling stock.
Article III - Derogation
The parties may, by agreement in writing, exclude the  application of Article IX and, in their relations with each  other, derogate from or vary the effect of any of the  provisions of this Protocol except Article VII(3) and (4).
Article IV - Representative capacities
A person may, in relation to railway rolling stock, enter  into an agreement, effect a registration as defined by  Article 16(3) of the Convention and assert rights and  interests under the Convention, in an agency, trust or  representative capacity.
Article V - Identification of railway rolling stock in the  agreement
1. For the purposes of Article 7(c) of the Convention and  Article XVIII(2) of this Protocol, a description of railway  rolling stock is sufficient to identify the railway rolling  stock if it contains:
(a) a description of the railway rolling stock by item;
(b) a description of the railway rolling stock by type;
(c) a statement that the agreement covers all present and  future railway rolling stock; or
(d) a statement that the agreement covers all present and  future railway rolling stock except for specified items or  types.
2. For the purposes of Article 7 of the Convention, an  interest in future railway rolling stock identified in  accordance with the preceding paragraph shall be constituted  as an international interest as soon as the chargor,  conditional seller or lessor acquires the power to dispose of  the railway rolling stock, without the need for any new act  of transfer.
Article VI - Choice of law
1. This Article applies only where a Contracting State has  made a declaration pursuant to Article XXVII.
2. The parties to an agreement or a related guarantee  contract or subordination agreement may agree on the law  which is to govern their contractual rights and obligations,  wholly or in part.
3. Unless otherwise agreed, the reference in the preceding  paragraph to the law chosen by the parties is to the domestic  rules of law of the designated State or, where that State  comprises several territorial units, to the domestic law of  the designated territorial unit.
Chapter II
Default remedies, priorities and assignments
Article VII - Modification of default remedies provisions
1. In addition to the remedies specified in Chapter III of  the Convention, the creditor may, to the extent that the  debtor has at any time so agreed and in the circumstances  specified in that Chapter, procure the export and physical  transfer of railway rolling stock from the territory in which  it is situated.
2. The creditor shall not exercise the remedies specified in  the preceding paragraph without the prior consent in writing  of the holder of any registered interest ranking in priority  to that of the creditor.
3. Article 8(3) of the Convention shall not apply to railway  rolling stock. Any remedy given by the Convention in relation  to railway rolling stock shall be exercised in a commercially  reasonable manner. A remedy shall be deemed to be exercised  in a commercially reasonable manner where it is exercised in  conformity with a provision of the agreement except where  such a provision is manifestly unreasonable.
4. A chargee giving fourteen or more calendar days' prior  written notice of a proposed sale or lease to interested  persons as provided by Article 8(4) of the Convention shall  be deemed to satisfy the requirement of giving the 
"reasonable prior notice" specified therein. The foregoing  shall not prevent a chargee and a chargor or a guarantor from  agreeing to a longer period of prior notice.
5. Subject to any applicable safety laws and regulations, a  Contracting State shall ensure that the relevant  administrative authorities expeditiously co-operate with and  assist the creditor to the extent necessary for the exercise  of the remedies specified in paragraph 1.
6. A chargee proposing to procure the export of railway  rolling stock under paragraph 1 otherwise than pursuant to a  court order shall give reasonable prior notice in writing of  the proposed export to:
(a) interested persons specified in Article 1(m)(i) and (ii)  of the Convention; and
(b) interested persons specified in Article 1(m)(iii) of the  Convention who have given notice of their rights to the  chargee within a reasonable time prior to the export.
Article VIII - Modification of provisions regarding relief  pending final determination
1. This Article applies only in a Contracting State which has  made a declaration pursuant to Article XXVII and to the  extent stated in such declaration.
2. For the purposes of Article 13(1) of the Convention, 
"speedy" in the context of obtaining relief means within such  number of calendar days from the date of filing of the  application for relief as is specified in a declaration made  by the Contracting State in which the application is made.
3. Article 13(1) of the Convention applies with the following  being added immediately after sub-paragraph (d):
"(e) if at any time the debtor and the creditor specifically  agree, sale of the object and application of proceeds  therefrom",
and Article 43(2) applies with the insertion after the words 
"Article 13(1)(d)" of the words "and (e)".
4. Ownership or any other interest of the debtor passing on a  sale under the preceding paragraph is free from any other  interest over which the creditor's international interest has  priority under the provisions of Article 29 of the  Convention.
5. The creditor and the debtor or any other interested person  may agree in writing to exclude the application of Article 
13(2) of the Convention.
6. With regard to the remedies in Article VII(1):
(a) they shall be made available by the administrative  authorities in a Contracting State no later than seven  calendar days after the creditor notifies such authorities  that the relief specified in Article VII(1) is granted or, in  the case of relief granted by a foreign court, recognised by  a court of that Contracting State, and that the creditor is  entitled to procure those remedies in accordance with the  Convention; and
(b) the applicable authorities shall expeditiously co-operate  with and assist the creditor in the exercise of such remedies  in conformity with the applicable safety laws and  regulations.
7. Paragraphs 2 and 6 shall not affect any applicable safety  laws and regulations.
Article IX - Remedies on insolvency
1. This Article applies only where a Contracting State that  is the primary insolvency jurisdiction has made a declaration  pursuant to Article XXVII.
2. References in this Article to the "insolvency  administrator" shall be to that person in its official, not  in its personal, capacity.
Alternative A
3. Upon the occurrence of an insolvency-related event, the  insolvency administrator or the debtor, as applicable, shall,  subject to paragraph 7, give possession of the railway  rolling stock to the creditor no later than the earlier of:
(a) the end of the waiting period; and
(b) the date on which the creditor would be entitled to  possession of the railway rolling stock if this Article did  not apply.
4. For the purposes of this Article, the "waiting period"  shall be the period specified in a declaration of the  Contracting State which is the primary insolvency  jurisdiction.
5. Unless and until the creditor is given the opportunity to  take possession under paragraph 3:
(a) the insolvency administrator or the debtor, as  applicable, shall preserve the railway rolling stock and  maintain it and its value in accordance with the agreement;  and
(b) the creditor shall be entitled to apply for any other  forms of interim relief available under the applicable law.
6. Sub-paragraph (a) of the preceding paragraph shall not  preclude the use of the railway rolling stock under  arrangements designed to preserve the railway rolling stock  and maintain it and its value.
7. The insolvency administrator or the debtor, as  applicable, may retain possession of the railway rolling  stock where, by the time specified in paragraph 3, it has  cured all defaults other than a default constituted by the  opening of insolvency proceedings and has agreed to perform  all future obligations under the agreement and related  transaction documents. A second waiting period shall not  apply in respect of a default in the performance of such  future obligations.
8. With regard to the remedies in Article VII(1):
(a) they shall be made available by the administrative  authorities in a Contracting State no later than seven  calendar days after the date on which the creditor notifies  such authorities that it is entitled to procure those  remedies in accordance with the Convention; and
(b) the applicable authorities shall expeditiously co-operate  with and assist the creditor in the exercise of such remedies  in conformity with the applicable safety laws and  regulations.
9. No exercise of remedies permitted by the Convention or  this Protocol may be prevented or delayed after the date  specified in paragraph 3.
10. No obligations of the debtor under the agreement may be  modified without the consent of the creditor.
11. Nothing in the preceding paragraph shall be construed to  affect the authority, if any, of the insolvency administrator  under the applicable law to terminate the agreement.
12. No rights or interests, except for non-consensual rights  or interests of a category covered by a declaration pursuant  to Article 39(1) of the Convention, shall have priority in  insolvency proceedings over registered interests.
13. The Convention as modified by Articles VII and XXV of  this Protocol shall apply to the exercise of any remedies  under this Article.
Alternative B
3. Upon the occurrence of an insolvency-related event, the  insolvency administrator or the debtor, as applicable, upon  the request of the creditor, shall give notice to the  creditor within the time specified in a declaration of a  Contracting State pursuant to Article XXVII whether it  will:
(a) cure all defaults other than a default constituted by the  opening of insolvency proceedings and agree to perform all  future obligations, under the agreement and related  transaction documents; or
(b) give the creditor the opportunity to take possession of  the railway rolling stock, in accordance with the applicable  law.
4. The applicable law referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of  the preceding paragraph may permit the court to require the  taking of any additional step or the provision of any  additional guarantee.
5. The creditor shall provide evidence of its claims and  proof that its international interest has been registered.
6. If the insolvency administrator or the debtor, as  applicable, does not give notice in conformity with paragraph 
3, or when the insolvency administrator or the debtor has  declared that it will give the creditor the opportunity to  take possession of the railway rolling stock but fails to do  so, the court may permit the creditor to take possession of  the railway rolling stock upon such terms as the court may  order and may require the taking of any additional step or  the provision of any additional guarantee.
7. The railway rolling stock shall not be sold pending a  decision by a court regarding the claim and the international  interest.
Alternative C
3. Upon the occurrence of an insolvency-related event, the  insolvency administrator or the debtor, as applicable, shall  within the cure period:
(a) cure all defaults other than a default constituted by the  opening of insolvency proceedings and agree to perform all  future obligations, under the agreement and related  transaction documents; or
(b) give the creditor the opportunity to take possession of  the railway rolling stock in accordance with the applicable  law.
4. Before the end of the cure period, the insolvency  administrator or the debtor, as applicable, may apply to the  court for an order suspending its obligation under  sub-paragraph (b) of the preceding paragraph for a period  commencing from the end of the cure period and ending no  later than the expiration of the agreement or any renewal  thereof, and on such terms as the court considers just (the 
"suspension period"). Any such order shall require that all  sums accruing to the creditor during the suspension period be  paid from the insolvency estate or by the debtor as they  become due and that the insolvency administrator or the  debtor, as applicable, perform all other obligations arising  during the suspension period.
5. If an application is made to the court under the preceding  paragraph, the creditor shall not take possession of the  railway rolling stock pending an order of the court. If the  application is not granted within such number of calendar  days from the date of filing of the application for relief as  is specified in a declaration made by the Contracting State  in which the application is made, the application will be  deemed withdrawn unless the creditor and the insolvency  administrator or the debtor, as applicable, otherwise  agree.
6. Unless and until the creditor is given the opportunity to  take possession under paragraph 3:
(a) the insolvency administrator or the debtor, as  applicable, shall preserve the railway rolling stock and  maintain it and its value in accordance with the agreement;  and
(b) the creditor shall be entitled to apply for any other  forms of interim relief available under the applicable law.
7. Sub-paragraph (a) of the preceding paragraph shall not  preclude the use of the railway rolling stock under  arrangements designed to preserve and maintain it and its  value.
8. Where during the cure period or any suspension period the  insolvency administrator or the debtor, as applicable, cures  all defaults other than a default constituted by the opening  of insolvency proceedings and agrees to perform all future  obligations under the agreement and related transaction  documents, the insolvency administrator or debtor may retain  possession of the railway rolling stock and any order made by  the court under paragraph 4 shall cease to have effect. A  second cure period shall not apply in respect of a default in  the performance of such future obligations.
9. With regard to the remedies in Article VII(1):
(a) they shall be made available by the administrative  authorities in a Contracting State no later than seven  calendar days after the date on which the creditor notifies  such authorities that it is entitled to procure those  remedies in accordance with the Convention; and
(b) the applicable authorities shall expeditiously co-operate  with and assist the creditor in the exercise of such remedies  in conformity with the applicable safety laws and  regulations.
10. Subject to paragraphs 4, 5 and 8, no exercise of remedies  permitted by the Convention may be prevented or delayed after  the cure period.
11. Subject to paragraphs 4, 5 and 8, no obligations of the  debtor under the agreement and related transactions may be  modified in insolvency proceedings without the consent of the  creditor.
12. Nothing in the preceding paragraph shall be construed to  affect the authority, if any, of the insolvency administrator  under the applicable law to terminate the agreement.
13. No rights or interests, ex-cept for non-consensual  rights or interests of a category covered by a declaration  pursuant to Article 39(1) of the Convention, shall have  priority in insolvency proceedings over registered  interests.
14. The Convention as modified by Articles VII and XXV of  this Protocol shall apply to the exercise of any remedies  under this Article.
15. For the purposes of this Article, the "cure period" shall  be the period, commencing with the date of the  insolvency-related event, specified in a declaration of the  Contracting State which is the primary insolvency  jurisdiction.
Article X - Insolvency assistance
1. This Article applies only in a Contracting State which has  made a declaration pursuant to Article XXVII(1).
2. The courts of a Contracting State in which railway  rolling stock is situated shall, in accordance with the law  of the Contracting State, co-operate to the maximum extent  possible with foreign courts and foreign insolvency  administrators in carrying out the provisions of Article  IX.
Article XI - Debtor provisions
1. In the absence of a default within the meaning of Article 
11 of the Convention, the debtor shall be entitled to the  quiet possession and use of the railway rolling stock in  accordance with the agreement as against:
(a) its creditor and the holder of any interest from which  the debtor takes free pursuant to Article 29(4)(b) of the  Convention unless and to the extent that the debtor has  otherwise agreed; and
(b) the holder of any interest to which the debtor's right or  interest is subject pursuant to Article 29(4)(a) of the  Convention, but only to the extent, if any, that such holder  has agreed.
2. Nothing in the Convention or this Protocol affects the  liability of a creditor for any breach of the agreement under  the applicable law in so far as that agreement relates to  railway rolling stock.
Chapter III
Registry provisions relating to international interests in  railway rolling stock
Article XII - The Supervisory Authority and the Registrar
1. The Supervisory Authority shall be a body established by  representatives, one representative to be appointed:
(a) by each State Party;
(b) by each of a maximum of three other States to be  designated by the International Institute for the Unification  of Private Law (UNIDROIT); and
(c) by each of a maximum of three other States to be  designated by the Intergovernmental Organisation for  International Carriage by Rail (OTIF).
2. In the designation of the States referred to in  sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) of the preceding paragraph regard  shall be had to the need to ensure broad geographical  representation.
3. The term of appointment of the representatives appointed  pursuant to sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) of paragraph 1 shall  be that specified by the designating Organisations. The terms  of those representatives serving on the date when this  Protocol enters into force for the tenth State Party shall  expire no later than two years after that date.
4. The representatives referred to in paragraph 1 shall adopt  the initial rules of procedure for the Supervisory Authority.  Adoption shall require agreement of:
(a) a majority of all the representatives; and
 
(b) a majority of the representatives appointed pursuant to  sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 1.
5. The Supervisory Authority may establish a commission of  experts consisting of:
(a) persons nominated by Signatory and Contracting States and  having the necessary qualifications and experience; and
(b) other experts as necessary and entrust the commission  with the task of assisting the Supervisory Authority in the  discharge of its functions.
6. A secretariat (the Secretariat) shall assist the  Supervisory Authority in the discharge of its functions, as  directed by the Supervisory Authority. The Secretariat shall  be OTIF.
7. In the event that the Secretariat becomes unable or  unwilling to discharge its functions, the Supervisory  Authority shall designate another Secretariat.
8. The Secretariat shall, on being satisfied that the  International Registry is fully operational, forthwith  deposit a certificate to that effect with the Depositary.
9. The Secretariat shall have legal personality where not  already possessing such personality, and shall enjoy, in  relation to its functions under the Convention and this  Protocol, the same exemptions and immunities as are provided  to the Supervisory Authority under Article 27(3) of the  Convention and to the International Registry under Article 
27(4) of the Convention.
10. A measure taken by the Supervisory Authority that  affects only the interests of a State Party or a group of  States Parties shall be taken if such State Party or the  majority of the group of States Parties also approve of the  measure. A measure that could adversely affect the interests  of a State Party or a group of States Parties shall have  effect in such State Party or group of States Parties if such  State Party or the majority of the group of States Parties  also approve of the measure.
11. The first Registrar shall be appointed for a period of  not less than five or more than ten years. Thereafter, the  Registrar shall be appointed or re-appointed for successive  periods each not exceeding ten years.
Article XIII - Designated entry points
1. A Contracting State may at any time designate, by  declaration, an entity or entities as the entry point or  entry points through which there shall or may be transmitted  to the International Registry information required for  registration other than registration of a notice of a  national interest or of a right or interest under Article 40  of the Convention in either case arising under the laws of  another State. The various entry points shall be operated at  least during working hours in their respective territories.
2. A designation made under the preceding paragraph may  permit, but not compel, use of a designated entry point or  entry points for information required for registrations in  respect of notices of sale.
Article XIV - Identification of railway rolling stock for  registration purposes
1. For the purposes of Article 18(1)(a) of the Convention, the  regulations shall prescribe a system for the allocation of  identification numbers by the Registrar which enable the unique  identification of items of railway rolling stock. The  identification number shall be:
(a) affixed to the item of railway rolling stock;
(b) associated in the International Registry with the  manufacturer's name and the manufacturer's identification  number for the item so affixed; or
(c) associated in the International Registry with a national  or regional identification number so affixed.
2. For the purposes of the preceding paragraph, a Contracting  State may, by declaration, state the system of national or  regional identification numbers that shall be used with  respect to items of railway rolling stock subject to an  international interest that is created or provided for, or is  intended to be created or provided for, by an agreement  entered into by a debtor situated in that Contracting State  at the time of the conclusion of that agreement. Such a  national or regional identification system shall, subject to  agreement between the Supervisory Authority and the  Contracting State making the declaration, ensure the unique  identification of each item of railway rolling stock to which  the system applies.
3. A declaration by a Contracting State according to the  preceding paragraph shall include detailed information on the  operation of the national or regional identification  system.
4. A registration in respect of an item of railway  rolling stock for which a declaration pursuant to paragraph 2  has been made shall, in order for the registration to be  valid, specify all the national or regional identification  numbers to which the item has been subject since the entry  into force of this Protocol under Article XXIII(1) and the  time during which each number has applied to the item.
Article XV - Additional modifications to Registry  provisions
1. For the purposes of Article 19(6) of the Convention, the  search criteria at the International Registry shall be  established by the regulations.
2. For the purposes of Article 25(2) of the Convention, and  in the circumstances there described, the holder of a  registered prospective international interest or a registered  prospective assignment of an international interest shall  take such steps as are within its power to procure the  discharge of the registration no later than ten calendar days  after the receipt of the demand described in such  paragraph.
3. Where a subordination has been registered  and the obligations of the debtor to the beneficiary of the  subordination have been discharged, the beneficiary shall  procure the discharge of the registration no later than ten  calendar days after written demand by the subordinated party  delivered to or received at the beneficiary's address stated  in the registration.
4. The centralised functions of the International Registry  shall be operated and administered by the Registrar on a  twenty-four hour basis.
5. The Registrar shall be liable under Article 28 (1) of  the Convention for loss caused up to an amount not exceeding  the value of the railway rolling stock to which the loss  relates. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the  liability of the Registrar shall not exceed 5 million Special  Drawing Rights in any calendar year, or such greater amount,  computed in such manner, as the Supervisory Authority may  from time to time determine by regulations.
6. The preceding paragraph shall not limit the Registrar's  liability for damages for loss caused by gross negligence or  intentional misconduct of the Registrar and its officers and  employees.
7. The amount of the insurance or financial guarantee  referred to in Article 28(4) of the Convention shall be not  less than the amount determined by the Supervisory Authority  to be appropriate, having regard to the prospective liability  of the Registrar.
8. Nothing in the Convention shall preclude the Registrar  from procuring insurance or a financial guarantee covering  events for which the Registrar is not liable under Article 28  of the Convention.
Article XVI - International Registry fees
1. The Supervisory Authority shall set and may from time to  time amend the fees to be paid in connection with  registrations, filings, searches and other services the  International Registry may provide, in accordance with its  regulations.
2. The fees referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be  determined so as to recover, to the extent necessary, the  reasonable costs of establishing, implementing and operating  the International Registry, as well as the reasonable costs  of the Secretariat associated with the performance of its  functions. Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the  Registrar from operating for a reasonable profit.
Article XVII - Notices of sale
The regulations shall authorise the registration in the  International Registry of notices of sale of railway rolling  stock. The provisions of this Chapter and of Chapter V of the Convention shall, in so far as relevant, apply to these  registrations. However, any such registration and any search  made or certificate issued in respect of a notice of sale shall  be for the purposes of information only and shall not affect  the rights of any person, or have any other effect, under the  Convention or this Protocol.
Chapter IV
Article XVIII - Waivers of sovereign immunity
1. Subject to paragraph 2, a waiver of sovereign immunity  from jurisdiction of the courts specified in Article 42 or  Article 43 of the Convention or relating to enforcement of  rights and interests relating to railway rolling stock under  the Convention shall be binding and, if the other conditions  to such jurisdiction or enforcement have been satisfied,  shall be effective to confer jurisdiction and permit  enforcement, as the case may be.
2. A waiver under the preceding paragraph must be in writing  and contain a description of the railway rolling stock as  specified in Article V(1) of this Protocol.
Chapter V
Relationship with other Conventions
Article XIX - Relationship with the UNIDROIT  Convention on International Financial Leasing
The Convention shall, to the extent of any inconsistency,  prevail over the UNIDROIT Convention on International  Financial Leasing, signed in Ottawa on 28 May 1988.
Article XX - Relationship with the Convention concerning  International Carriage by Rail (COTIF)
The Convention shall, to the extent of any inconsistency,  prevail over the Convention concerning International Carriage  by Rail (COTIF) of 9 May 1980 in the version of the Protocol  of Modification of 3 June 1999.
Chapter VI
Final provisions
Article XXI - Signature, ratification, acceptance, approval  or accession 1. This Protocol shall be open for signature in Luxembourg on 
23 February 2007 by States participating in the diplomatic  Conference to adopt a Rail Protocol to the Convention on  International Interests in Mobile Equipment held at  Luxembourg from 12 to 23 February 2007. After 23 February 
2007 this Protocol shall be open to all States for signature  at the Headquarters of UNIDROIT in Rome until it enters into  force in accordance with Article XXIII.
2. This Protocol shall be subject to ratification,  acceptance or approval by States which have signed it.
3. Any State which does not sign this Protocol may accede  to it at any time.
4. Ratification, acceptance, approval or accession is  effected by the deposit of a formal instrument to that effect  with the Depositary.
5. A State may not become a Party to this Protocol unless  it is or becomes also a Party to the Convention.
Article XXII - Regional Economic Integration Organisations
1. A Regional Economic Integration Organisation which is  constituted by sovereign States and has competence over  certain matters governed by this Protocol may similarly sign,  accept, approve or accede to this Protocol. The Regional  Economic Integration Organisation shall in that case have the  rights and obligations of a Contracting State, to the extent  that that Organisation has competence over matters governed  by this Protocol. Where the number of Contracting States is  relevant in this Protocol, the Regional Economic Integration  Organisation shall not count as a Contracting State in  addition to its Member States which are Contracting  States.
2. The Regional Economic Integration Organisation  shall, at the time of signature, acceptance, approval or  accession, make a declaration to the Depositary specifying  the matters governed by this Protocol in respect of which  competence has been transferred to that Organisation by its  Member States. The Regional Economic Integration Organisation  shall promptly notify the Depositary of any changes to the  distribution of competence, including new transfers of  competence, specified in the declaration under this  paragraph.
3. Any reference to a "Contracting State" or "Contracting  States" or "State Party" or "States Parties" in this Protocol  applies equally to a Regional Economic Integration  Organisation where the context so requires.
Article XXIII - Entry into force
1. This Protocol enters into force between the States which  have deposited instruments referred to in sub-paragraph (a)  on the later of:
(a) the first day of the month following the expiration of  three months after the date of the deposit of the fourth  instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or  accession, and
(b) the date of the deposit by the Secretariat with the  Depositary of a certificate confirming that the International  Registry is fully operational.
2. For other States this Protocol enters into force on the  first day of the month following the later of:
(a) the expiration of three months after the date of the  deposit of its instrument of ratification, acceptance,  approval or accession; and
(b) the date referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of the  preceding paragraph.
Article XXIV - Territorial units
1. If a Contracting State has territorial units in which  different systems of law are applicable in relation to the  matters dealt with in this Protocol, it may, at the time of  ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, declare that  this Protocol is to extend to all its territorial units or  only to one or more of them, and may modify its declaration  by submitting another declaration at any time.
2. Any such declarations are to be notified to the  Depositary and shall state expressly the territorial units to  which this Protocol applies.
3. If a Contracting State has not made any declaration under  paragraph 1, this Protocol shall apply to all territorial  units of that State.
4. Where a Contracting State extends this Protocol to one or  more of its territorial units, declarations permitted under  this Protocol may be made in respect of each such territorial  unit, and the declarations made in respect of one territorial  unit may be different from those made in respect of another  territorial unit.
5. If by virtue of a declaration under paragraph 1, this  Protocol extends to one or more territorial units of a  Contracting State:
(a) the debtor is considered to be situated in a Contracting  State only if it is incorporated or formed under a law in  force in a territorial unit to which the Convention and this  Protocol apply or if it has its registered office or  statutory seat, centre of administration, place of business  or habitual residence in a territorial unit to which the  Convention and this Protocol apply;
(b) any reference to the location of the railway rolling  stock in a Contracting State refers to the location of the  railway rolling stock in a territorial unit to which the  Convention and this Protocol apply; and
(c) any reference to the administrative authorities in that  Contracting State shall be construed as referring to the  administrative authorities having jurisdiction in a  territorial unit to which the Convention and this Protocol  apply.
Article XXV - Public service railway rolling stock
1. A Contracting State may, at any time, declare that it will  continue to apply, to the extent specified in its  declaration, rules of its law in force at that time which  preclude, suspend or govern the exercise within its territory  of any of the remedies specified in Chapter III of the  Convention and Articles VII to IX of this Protocol in  relation to railway rolling stock habitually used for the  purpose of providing a service of public importance ("public  service railway rolling stock") as specified in that  declaration notified to the Depositary.
2. Any person, including a governmental or other public  authority, that, under rules of law of a Contracting State  making a declaration under the preceding paragraph, exercises  a power to take or procure possession, use or control of any  public service railway rolling stock, shall preserve and  maintain such railway rolling stock from the time of exercise  of such power until possession, use or control is restored to  the creditor.
3. During the period of time specified in the preceding  paragraph, the person referred to in that paragraph shall  also make or procure payment to the creditor of an amount  equal to the greater of:
(a) such amount as that person shall be required to pay under  the rules of law of the Contracting State making the  declaration; and
(b) the market lease rental in respect of such railway  rolling stock.
The first such payment shall be made within ten calendar days  of the date on which such power is exercised, and subsequent  payments shall be made on the first day of each successive  month thereafter. In the event that in any month the amount  payable exceeds the amount due to the creditor from the  debtor, the surplus shall be paid to any other creditors to  the extent of their claims in the order of their priority and  thereafter to the debtor.
4. A Contracting State whose rules of law do not provide for  the obligations specified in paragraphs 2 and 3 may, to the  extent specified in a separate declaration notified to the  Depositary, declare that it will not apply those paragraphs  with regard to railway rolling stock specified in that  declaration. Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude a  person from agreeing with the creditor to perform the  obligations specified in paragraphs 2 or 3 or affect the  enforceability of any agreement so concluded.
5. Any initial or subsequent declaration made under this  Article by a Contracting State shall not adversely affect  rights and interests of creditors arising under an agreement  entered into prior to the date on which that declaration is  received by the Depositary.
6. A Contracting State making a declaration under this  Article shall take into consideration the protection of the  interests of creditors and the effect of the declaration on  the availability of credit.
Article XXVI - Transitional provisions
In relation to railway rolling stock Article 60 of the  Convention shall be modified as follows:
(a) in paragraph 2(a), after "situated" insert "at the time  the right or interest is created or arises";
(b) replace paragraph 3 with the following:
"3. A Contracting State may in its declaration under  paragraph 1 specify a date, not earlier than three years and  not later than ten years after the date on which the  declaration becomes effective, when Articles 29, 35 and 36 of  this Convention as modified or supplemented by the Protocol  will become applicable, to the extent and in the manner  specified in the declaration, to pre-existing rights or  interests arising under an agreement made at a time when the  debtor was situated in that State. Any priority of the right  or interest under the law of that State, so far as  applicable, shall continue if the right or interest is  registered in the International Registry before the  expiration of the period specified in the declaration,  whether or not any other right or interest has previously  been registered."
Article XXVII - Declarations relating to certain provisions
1. A Contracting State may, at the time of ratification,  acceptance, approval of, or accession to this Protocol,  declare that it will apply either or both of Articles VI and  X.
2. A Contracting State may, at the time of ratification,  acceptance, approval of, or accession to this Protocol,  declare that it will apply Article VIII, wholly or in part.  If it so declares, it shall specify the time-period required  by Article VIII(2).
3. A Contracting State may, at the time of ratification,  acceptance, approval of, or accession to this Protocol,  declare that it will apply the entirety of one of  Alternatives A, B and C of Article IX and, if it so declares,  it shall specify the type of insolvency proceeding, if any,  to which it will apply such Alternative. A Contracting State  making a declaration pursuant to this paragraph shall specify  the time-period required by Article IX under paragraph 4 of  Alternative A, paragraph 3 of Alternative B or paragraphs 5  and 15 of Alternative C, as applicable.
4. The courts of Contracting States shall apply Article IX in  conformity with the declaration made by the Contracting State  which is the primary insolvency jurisdiction.
Article XXVIII - Reservations and declarations
1. No reservations may be made to this Protocol but  declarations authorised by Articles XIII, XIV, XXIV, XXV,  XXVII, XXIX and XXX may be made in accordance with these  provisions.
2. Any declaration or subsequent declaration or any  withdrawal of a declaration made under this Protocol shall be  notified in writing to the Depositary.
Article XXIX - Declarations under the Convention
1. Declarations made under the Convention, including those  made under Articles 39, 40, 50, 53, 54, 55, 57, 58 and 60,  shall be deemed to have also been made under this Protocol  unless stated otherwise.
2. For the purposes of Article 50(1) of the Convention, an 
"internal transaction" shall also mean, in relation to  railway rolling stock, a transaction of a type listed in  Article 2(2)(a) to (c) of the Convention where the relevant  railway rolling stock is only capable, in its normal course  of use, of being operated on a single railway system within  the Contracting State concerned, because of track gauge or  other elements of the design of such railway rolling  stock.
Article XXX - Subsequent declarations
1. A State Party may make a subsequent declaration, other  than a declaration made in accordance with Article XXIX under  Article 60 of the Convention, at any time after the date on  which this Protocol has entered into force for it, by  notifying the Depositary to that effect.
2. Any such subsequent declaration shall take effect on the  first day of the month following the expiration of six months  after the date of receipt of the notification by the  Depositary. Where a longer period for that declaration to  take effect is specified in the notification, it shall take  effect upon the expiration of such longer period after  receipt of the notification by the Depositary.
3. Notwithstanding the previous paragraphs, this Protocol  shall continue to apply, as if no such subsequent  declarations had been made, in respect of all rights and  interests arising prior to the effective date of any such  subsequent declaration.
Article XXXI - Withdrawal of declarations
1. Any State Party having made a declaration under this  Protocol, other than a declaration made in accordance with  Article XXIX under Article 60 of the Convention, may withdraw  it at any time by notifying the Depositary. Such withdrawal  is to take effect on the first day of the month following the  expiration of six months after the date of receipt of the  notification by the Depositary.
2. Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, this Protocol  shall continue to apply, as if no such withdrawal had been  made, in respect of all rights and interests arising prior to  the effective date of any such withdrawal.
Article XXXII - Denunciations
1. Any State Party may denounce this Protocol by  notification in writing to the Depositary.
2. Any such denunciation shall take effect on the first day  of the month following the expiration of twelve months after  the date of receipt of the notification by the Depositary.
3. Notwithstanding the previous paragraphs, this Protocol  shall continue to apply, as if no such denunciation had been  made, in respect of all rights and interests arising prior to  the effective date of any such denunciation.
Article XXXIII - Review Conferences, amendments  and related matters
1. The Depositary, in consultation with the Supervisory  Authority, shall prepare reports yearly, or at such other  time as the circumstances may require, for the States Parties  as to the manner in which the international regime  established in the Convention as amended by the Protocol has  operated in practice. In preparing such reports, the  Depositary shall take into account the reports of the  Supervisory Authority concerning the functioning of the  international registration system.
2. At the request of not less than twenty-five per cent of  the States Parties, Review Conferences of the States Parties  shall be convened from time to time by the Depositary, in  consultation with the Supervisory Authority, to consider:
(a) the practical operation of the Convention as amended by  this Protocol and its effectiveness in facilitating the  asset-based financing and leasing of the objects covered by  its terms;
(b) the judicial interpretation given to, and the application  made of the terms of this Protocol and the regulations;
(c) the functioning of the international registration system,  the performance of the Registrar and its oversight by the  Supervisory Authority, taking into account the reports of the  Supervisory Authority; and
(d) whether any modifications to this Protocol or the  arrangements relating to the International Registry are  desirable.
3. Any amendment to this Protocol shall be approved by at  least a two-thirds majority of States Parties participating  in the Conference referred to in the preceding paragraph and  shall then enter into force in respect of States which have  ratified, accepted or approved such amendment when it has  been ratified, accepted or approved by four States in  accordance with the provisions of Article XXIII relating to  its entry into force.
Article XXXIV - Depositary and its functions
1. Instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or  accession shall be deposited with UNIDROIT, which is hereby  designated the Depositary.
2. The Depositary shall:
(a) inform all Contracting States of:
(i) each new signature or deposit of an instrument of  ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, together  with the date thereof;
(ii) the date of the deposit of the certificate referred to  in Article XXIII(1)(b);
(iii) the date of entry into force of this Protocol;
(iv) each declaration made in accordance with this Protocol,  together with the date thereof;
(v) the withdrawal or amendment of any declaration, together  with the date thereof; and
(vi) the notification of any denunciation of this Protocol  together with the date thereof and the date on which it takes  effect;
(b) transmit certified true copies of this Protocol to all  Contracting States;
(c) provide the Supervisory Authority and the Registrar with  a copy of each instrument of ratification, acceptance,  approval or accession, together with the date of deposit  thereof, of each declaration or withdrawal or amendment of a  declaration and of each notification of denunciation,  together with the date of notification thereof, so that the  information contained therein is easily and fully available;  and
(d) perform such other functions customary for  depositaries.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned Plenipotentiaries, having  been duly authorised, have signed this Protocol.
DONE at Luxembourg, this twenty-third day of February, two  thousand and seven, in a single original in the English, French  and German languages, all texts being equally authentic, such  authenticity to take effect upon verification by the  Secretariat of the Conference under the authority of the  President of the Conference within ninety days hereof as to  the consistency of the texts with one another.
LUXEMBURG-PROTOKOLLET OM SÄRSKILDA FRÅGOR RÖRANDE RULLANDE  JÄRNVÄGSMATERIEL TILL KONVENTIONEN OM INTERNATIONELLA  SÄKERHETSRÄTTER I LÖSA SAKER
DE STATER SOM ÄR PARTER I DETTA PROTOKOLL,
SOM ANSER att konventionen om internationella säkerhetsrätter  i lösa saker (konventionen), mot bakgrund av konventionens  syften såsom dessa kommer till uttryck i konventionens  ingress, bör implementeras i den utsträckning den är  tillämplig på rullande järnvägsmateriel,
SOM ÄR MEDVETNA OM behovet av att anpassa konventionen för  att möta de särskilda krav som gäller för rullande  järnvägsmateriel och finansieringen av sådan materiel,
HAR ENATS OM följande bestämmelser om rullande  järnvägsmateriel:
Kapitel I
Tillämpningsområde och allmänna bestämmelser
Artikel I - Definitioner
1. Om inte annat framgår av sammanhanget ska termer som  definieras i konventionen ha samma betydelse i detta  protokoll.
2. I detta protokoll har följande termer den betydelse som  anges nedan:
a) borgensförbindelse: överenskommelse varigenom en part  förbinder sig som borgensman eller lämnar en garanti,
b) borgensman: en person som för att sörja för det rätta  fullgörandet av varje förpliktelse gentemot en borgenär  enligt ett pantavtal eller annat avtal, går i borgen eller  ställer eller låter utfärda en garanti, letter of credit  eller varje annan form av kreditförsäkring,
c) insolvenssituation:
i) inledande av insolvensförfaranden, eller
ii) gäldenärens besked om inställelse av betalningar, eller  faktisk inställelse av betalningar i de fall borgenären är  förhindrad att inleda ett insolvensförfarande mot gäldenären  eller är förhindrad enligt lag eller efter en statlig åtgärd  att vidta åtgärder enligt konventionen,
d) stat med primär jurisdiktion över insolvensärende:  fördragsslutande stat där gäldenären har sina huvudsakliga  intressen, vilken för detta ändamål ska anses vara den stat  där gäldenären har sitt registrerade säte, eller, om sådant  saknas, den stat där bolaget är bildat, om inte annat  påvisas
e) rullande järnvägsmateriel: fordon som förflyttas på ett  fast järnvägsspår, eller direkt på, över eller under en  styrbana, tillsammans med framdrivningssystem, motorer,  bromsar, axlar, boggier, strömavtagare, tillbehör och andra  komponenter, utrustningsdetaljer och delar som är  installerade på eller integrerade i fordonen, inklusive all  tillhörande data, manualer och register.
Artikel II - Konventionens tillämpning på rullande  järnvägsmateriel
1. Konventionen ska tillämpas på rullande järnvägsmateriel i  enlighet med bestämmelserna i detta protokoll.
2. Konventionen och detta protokoll ska benämnas  konventionen om internationella säkerhetsrätter i lösa saker  såsom denna är tillämplig på rullande järnvägsmateriel.
Artikel III - Undantag
Parterna får genom ett skriftligt avtal avstå från att  tillämpa artikel IX och, i sina förbindelser med varandra,  avvika från eller ändra verkan av bestämmelserna i detta  protokoll, med undantag för artikel VII(3) och VII(4).
Artikel IV - Företrädares befogenheter
En person får, avseende rullande järnvägsmateriel, ingå ett  avtal, registrera på det sätt som anges i artikel 16(3) i  konventionen och åberopa de rättigheter och säkerhetsrätter  som följer av konventionen i egenskap av ombud, förvaltare  eller annan företrädare.
Artikel V - Identifiering av rullande järnvägsmateriel  i avtalet
1. Vid tillämpningen av artikel 7(c) i konventionen och  artikel XVIII(2) i detta protokoll ska en beskrivning av den  rullande järnvägsmaterielen vara tillräcklig för att  identifiera denna materiel, förutsatt att den inbegriper
a) en beskrivning av den rullande järnvägsmaterielens  beståndsdelar,
b) en beskrivning av den rullande järnvägsmaterielen efter  typ,
c) en förklaring om att avtalet omfattar all befintlig och  framtida järnvägsmateriel, eller
d) en förklaring om att avtalet omfattar all befintlig och  framtida järnvägsmateriel, med undantag för särskilt angivna  delar eller typer.
2. Vid tillämpningen av artikel 7 i konventionen ska en  säkerhetsrätt i framtida rullande järnvägsmateriel som  identifierats i enlighet med föregående punkt anses utgöra en  internationell säkerhetsrätt om pantsättaren, säljaren med  förbehåll eller leasegivaren förvärvar rätten att förfoga  över den rullande järnvägsmaterielen, utan att det behövs  någon ny överlåtelsehandling.
Artikel VI - Val av tillämplig lag
1. Denna artikel ska vara tillämplig endast om en  fördragsslutande stat har avgett en förklaring enligt artikel  XXVII.
2. Parterna i ett avtal, ett avtal om borgensförbindelse  eller efterställning får enas om vilken lag som, helt eller  delvis, ska vara tillämplig på avtalsvillkoren.
3. Om inte annat har avtalats ska hänvisningen i föregående  punkt till den lag som parterna valt avse den utsedda statens  nationella rättsregler eller, om den staten omfattar flera  territoriella enheter, lagen i den utsedda territoriella  enheten.
Kapitel II
Åtgärder vid avtalsbrott, prioritet och överlåtelser
Artikel VII - Ändring av bestämmelserna om åtgärder vid  avtalsbrott
1. Utöver de åtgärder som anges i kapitel III i  konventionen, och förutsatt att gäldenären vid något  tillfälle har lämnat sitt samtycke därtill, får borgenären, i  situationer som har specificerats i det kapitlet låta  exportera och föra ut den rullande järnvägsmaterielen från  det territorium där materielen befinner sig.
2. Borgenären får inte genomföra de åtgärder som har  specificerats i föregående punkt utan skriftligt samtycke  från innehavare av registrerade säkerhetsrätter med bättre  prioritet än borgenärens.
3. Artikel 8(3) i konventionen ska inte gälla rullande  järnvägsmateriel. Varje åtgärd som anges i konventionen och  som avser rullande järnvägsmateriel ska genomföras på ett  affärsmässigt skäligt sätt. En åtgärd ska anses vara  genomförd på ett affärsmässigt skäligt sätt när den genomförs  i överensstämmelse med en bestämmelse i avtalet, utom i de  fall bestämmelsen är uppenbart oskälig.
4. En säkerhetshavare som lämnar berörda personer ett  skriftligt meddelande minst fjorton kalenderdagar före  planerad försäljning eller leasing ska anses ha uppfyllt  kravet på "skälig tid" i artikel 8(4) i konventionen. Detta  ska dock inte hindra en säkerhetshavare och en  säkerhetsställare eller en borgensman från att avtala om att  meddelande ska lämnas tidigare.
5. Med förbehåll för de lagar och andra författningar som är  tillämpliga när det gäller säkerhet ska de fördragsslutande  staterna se till att berörda administrativa myndigheter  skyndsamt samarbetar med borgenären och bistår i den  utsträckning som krävs för att denne ska kunna vidta de  åtgärder som anges i punkt 1.
6. En säkerhetshavare som avser att exportera rullande  järnvägsmateriel enligt punkt 1 i annat fall än genom  verkställighet av ett domstolsavgörande, ska i skälig tid  skriftligen lämna information om den kommande exporten  till:
a) de berörda personer som avses i artikel 1(m)(i) och (ii) i  konventionen: och
b) de berörda personer som avses i konventionens artikel 
1(m)(iii), vilka i skälig tid före exporten har underrättat  säkerhetshavaren om sina rättigheter.
Artikel VIII - Ändring av bestämmelserna om interimistiska  åtgärder
1. Denna artikel ska vara tillämplig endast om en  fördragsslutande stat har avgett en förklaring enligt artikel  XXVII och endast i den utsträckning som framgår av  förklaringen.
2. Vid tillämpningen av artikel 13(1) i konventionen ska  uttrycket "skyndsamt", i samband med utverkandet av åtgärder,  avse det antal kalenderdagar räknat från dagen för  inlämnandet av framställan som anges i förklaringen från den  fördragsslutande stat i vilken framställan har lämnats.
3. Artikel 13(1) i konventionen ska gälla med tillägget av  följande bestämmelse omedelbart efter stycket (d):
"(e) försäljning och fördelning av inkomsterna från  försäljningen, om gäldenären och borgenären uttryckligen  kommer överens om detta",
och artikel 43(2) ska gälla med tillägget "och (e)" efter  orden "artikel 13(1)(d)".
4. Äganderätt eller annan rätt som gäldenären har och som  överförs till följd av en försäljning enligt föregående  punkt, är fri från andra säkerhetsrätter framför vilka  borgenärens internationella säkerhetsrätt har prioritet  enligt bestämmelserna i artikel 29 i konventionen.
5. Borgenären och gäldenären eller varje annan berörd  person får skriftligen avtala om att undanta tillämpningen av  artikel 13(2) i konventionen.
6. De åtgärder som avses i artikel VII(1):
a) ska göras tillgängliga av de administrativa myndigheterna  i en fördragsslutande stat inom sju kalenderdagar från den  dag då borgenären har meddelat dessa myndigheter att den  åtgärd som avses i artikel VII(1) har beviljats eller, om  åtgärden har beviljats av en utländsk domstol, har erkänts av  en domstol i den fördragsslutande staten, och att borgenären  har rätt att utverka åtgärderna enligt konventionen, och
b) de behöriga myndigheterna ska skyndsamt samarbeta med  borgenären och bistå vid vidtagandet av åtgärderna i enlighet  med de lagar och andra författningar som är tillämpliga när  det gäller säkerhet.
7. Punkterna 2 och 6 ska inte påverka de lagar och andra  författningar som är tillämpliga när det gäller  järnvägssäkerhet.
Artikel IX - Åtgärder vid insolvens
1. Denna artikel ska vara tillämplig endast om en  fördragsslutande stat med primär jurisdiktion över ett  insolvensärende har avgett en förklaring enligt artikel  XXVII.
2. Hänvisningarna till "insolvensförvaltaren" i denna  artikel avser personen i dess officiella kapacitet och inte i  dess personliga roll.
Alternativ A
3. När en insolvenssituation uppstår ska insolvensförvaltaren  eller, alltefter omständigheterna, gäldenären, med förbehåll  för punkt 7, överlämna den rullande järnvägsmaterielen till  borgenären senast vid den första av tidpunkterna nedan:
a) när väntetiden löpt ut; och
b) vid den tidpunkt då borgenären skulle ha rätt att ta den  rullande järnvägsmaterielen i besittning om denna artikel  inte var tillämplig.
4. Vid tillämpningen av denna artikel avses med "väntetid"  den tidsfrist som anges i en förklaring från den  fördragsslutande staten med primär jurisdiktion över  insolvensärendet.
5. Såvida och så länge borgenären inte har getts möjlighet  att ta materielen i besittning enligt punkt 3 ska
a) insolvensförvaltaren eller, alltefter omständigheterna,  gäldenären bevara och underhålla den rullande  järnvägsmaterielen och upprätthålla dess värde i enlighet med  avtalet, och
b) borgenären ha rätt att ansöka om andra interimistiska  åtgärder som är tillgängliga enligt tillämplig lag.
6. Bestämmelserna i stycket (a) i föregående punkt utesluter  inte att den rullande järnvägsmaterielen används enligt avtal  som ingåtts i syfte att bevara och underhålla materielen och  upprätthålla dess värde.
7. Insolvensförvaltaren eller, alltefter omständigheterna,  gäldenären får behålla besittningen till den rullande  järnvägsmaterielen om denne senast vid den tidpunkt som  fastställs i punkt 3 har läkt alla andra avtalsbrott än det  som består i att insolvensförfarandet har inletts och har  förbundit sig att uppfylla alla framtida förpliktelser i  enlighet med avtalet och därtill hörande dokument. Någon  ytterligare väntetid ska inte tillämpas om dessa framtida  förpliktelser inte uppfylls.
8. De åtgärder som avses i artikel VII(1)
a) ska göras tillgängliga av de behöriga administrativa  myndigheterna i en fördragsslutande stat inom sju  kalenderdagar från den dag då borgenären har meddelat dessa  myndigheter att borgenären har rätt att utverka åtgärderna i  enlighet med konventionen, och
b) de behöriga myndigheterna ska skyndsamt samarbeta med  borgenären och bistå vid vidtagandet av åtgärderna i enlighet  med de lagar och andra författningar som är tillämpliga när  det gäller säkerhet.
9. Ingen av de åtgärder som får vidtas enligt konventionen  eller protokollet får förhindras eller försenas efter den dag  som fastställs i punkt 3.
10. Ingen av gäldenärens förpliktelser enligt avtalet får  ändras utan borgenärens samtycke.
11. Föregående punkt får inte tolkas på ett sätt som  inskränker insolvensförvaltarens eventuella befogenhet att  enligt tillämplig lag säga upp avtalet.
12. Ingen rättighet eller säkerhetsrätt, med undantag för  legala rättigheter eller säkerhetsrätter som tillhör en  kategori som omfattas av en förklaring enligt artikel 39(1) i  konventionen, ska i samband med insolvensförfaranden ha  företräde framför de säkerhetsrätter som har registrerats.
13. Konventionen, ändrad genom artiklarna VII och XXV i  detta protokoll, ska tillämpas vid genomförandet av samtliga  åtgärder i denna artikel.
Alternativ B
3. När en insolvenssituation uppstår ska insolvensförvaltaren  eller, alltefter omständigheterna, gäldenären, på begäran av  borgenären, inom den tidsfrist som anges i en förklaring som  avgetts av en fördragsslutande stat enligt artikel XXVII,  meddela borgenären om gäldenären kommer att
a) läka alla andra avtalsbrott än det som består i att  insolvensförfarandet har inletts, och förbinda sig att  uppfylla alla framtida förpliktelser i enlighet med avtalet  och därtill hörande dokument, eller
b) göra det möjligt för borgenären att ta den rullande  järnvägsmaterielen i besittning i enlighet med tillämplig  lag.
4. Enligt den lag som är tillämplig enligt stycket (b) i  föregående punkt, får domstolen begära att kompletterande  åtgärder ska vidtas eller att ytterligare säkerhetsrätt ska  ställas.
5. Borgenären ska styrka sin fordran och visa att den  internationella säkerhetsrätten har registrerats.
6. Om insolvensförvaltaren eller, alltefter omständigheterna,  gäldenären inte meddelar borgenären i enlighet med punkt 3,  eller om insolvensförvaltaren eller gäldenären har förklarat  att han eller hon kommer att göra det möjligt för borgenären  att ta den rullande järnvägsmaterielen i besittning men så  inte sker, får domstolen låta borgenären ta den rullande  järnvägsmaterielen i besittning på de villkor som domstolen  fastställer samt får begära att kompletterande åtgärder ska  vidtas eller att ytterligare säkerhet ska ställas.
7. Den rullande järnvägsmaterielen får inte säljas så länge  domstolen inte fattat beslut om fordran och den  internationella säkerhetsrätten.
Alternativ C
3. När en insolvenssituation uppstår ska insolvensförvaltaren  eller, alltefter omständigheterna, gäldenären under  åtgärdsperioden
a) läka alla andra avtalsbrott än det som består i att  insolvensförfarandet har inletts och förbinda sig att  uppfylla alla framtida förpliktelser i enlighet med avtalet  och därtill hörande dokument, eller
b) göra det möjligt för borgenären att ta den rullande  järnvägsmaterielen i besittning i enlighet med tillämplig  lag.
4. Innan åtgärdsperioden har löpt ut får insolvensförvaltaren  eller, alltefter omständigheterna, gäldenären ansöka om att  domstolen ska fatta beslut om tillfälligt anstånd med  vederbörandes förpliktelse enligt stycket (b) i föregående  punkt under en period som inleds när åtgärdsperioden löper  ut, och som upphör senast när avtalet eller en eventuell  förlängning av detta löper ut, och på villkor som domstolen  anser skäliga (anståndsperioden). Ett sådant beslut ska  innebära att alla belopp som tillfaller borgenären under  anståndsperioden utbetalas från konkursboet eller av  gäldenären allteftersom de förfaller till betalning och att  insolvensförvaltaren eller, alltefter omständigheterna,  gäldenären fullgör alla andra förpliktelser som uppstår under  perioden i fråga.
5. Om en ansökan ges in till domstolen i enlighet med  föregående punkt, ska borgenären avstå från att ta den  rullande järnvägsmaterielen i besittning till dess att  domstolen har fattat ett beslut. Om inte ansökan beviljas  inom det antal kalenderdagar, från dagen för ansökan om  åtgärder, som anges i en förklaring från den fördragsslutande  stat i vilken ansökan lämnats in, ska ansökan anses ha  dragits tillbaka om inte borgenären och insolvensförvaltaren  eller, alltefter omständigheterna, gäldenären kommer överens  om annat.
6. Såvida och så länge borgenären inte har getts möjlighet  att ta materielen i besittning enligt punkt 3 ska
a) insolvensförvaltaren eller, alltefter omständigheterna,  gäldenären bevara och underhålla den rullande  järnvägsmaterielen och upprätthålla dess värde i enlighet med  avtalet, och
b) borgenären ha rätt att ansöka om andra interimistiska  åtgärder enligt tillämplig lag.
7. Bestämmelserna i stycket (a) i föregående punkt utesluter  inte att den rullande järnvägsmaterielen används enligt avtal  som ingåtts i syfte att bevara och underhålla materielen och  upprätthålla dess värde.
8. Om insolvensförvaltaren eller, alltefter  omständigheterna, gäldenären under åtgärdsperioden eller en  eventuell anståndsperiod läker alla andra avtalsbrott än det  som består i att insolvensförfarandet har inletts, och  förbinder sig att uppfylla alla framtida förpliktelser enligt  avtalet och därtill hörande dokument, får  insolvensförvaltaren eller gäldenären behålla besittningen  till den rullande järnvägsmaterielen, och alla beslut som  domstolen fattat enligt punkt 4 ska upphöra att gälla. Någon  ytterligare åtgärdsperiod ska inte tillämpas om dessa  framtida förpliktelser inte uppfylls.
9. De åtgärder som avses i artikel VII(1)
a) ska göras tillgängliga av de administrativa myndigheterna  i en fördragsslutande stat inom sju kalenderdagar från den  dag då borgenären har meddelat dessa myndigheter att  borgenären har rätt att utverka åtgärderna i enlighet med  konventionen, och
b) de behöriga myndigheterna ska skyndsamt samarbeta med  borgenären och bistå vid vidtagandet av åtgärderna i enlighet  med de lagar och andra författningar som är tillämpliga när  det gäller järnvägssäkerhet.
10. Med förbehåll för vad som anges i punkterna 4, 5 och 8  får ingen av de åtgärder som får vidtas enligt konventionen  förhindras eller försenas efter det att åtgärdsperioden löpt  ut.
11. Med förbehåll för vad som anges i punkterna 4, 5 och 8  får ingen av gäldenärens förpliktelser enligt avtalet och  anknytande överlåtelsehandlingar ändras utan borgenärens  samtycke i samband med insolvensförfaranden.
12. Föregående punkt får inte tolkas på ett sätt som  inskränker insolvensförvaltarens eventuella befogenhet att  enligt tillämplig lag säga upp avtalet.
13. Ingen rättighet eller säkerhetsrätt, med undantag för  legala rättigheter eller säkerhetsrätter som tillhör en  kategori som omfattas av en förklaring enligt artikel 39(1) i  konventionen, ska i samband med insolvensförfaranden ha  företräde framför de säkerhetsrätter som har registrerats.
14. Konventionen, ändrad genom artiklarna VII och XXV i  protokollet, ska tillämpas vid genomförandet av samtliga  åtgärder i denna artikel.
15. Med "åtgärdsperiod" avses i denna artikel den  tidsperiod som börjar löpa den dag som insolvenssituationen  uppstod, och som anges i en förklaring som avges av en  fördragsslutande stat med primär jurisdiktion över  insolvensärendet, och som börjar löpa den dag som  insolvenssituationen uppstod.
Artikel X - Bistånd vid insolvens
1. Denna artikel ska vara tillämplig endast om en  fördragsslutande stat har avgett en förklaring enligt artikel  XXVII(1).
2. Domstolarna i en fördragsslutande stat i vilken den  rullande järnvägsmaterielen befinner sig, ska i  överensstämmelse med den fördragsslutande statens lag så  långt det är möjligt samarbeta med de utländska domstolarna  och utländska insolvensförvaltarna vid tillämpningen av  bestämmelserna i artikel IX.
Artikel XI - Bestämmelser om gäldenären
1. Så länge avtalsbrott enligt artikel 11 i konventionen  inte föreligger, har gäldenären rätt att förfoga över och  använda den rullande järnvägsmaterielen i överensstämmelse  med avtalsvillkoren, i förhållande till
a) borgenären och innehavaren av en säkerhetsrätt som  gäldenären är fri från enligt artikel 29(4)(b) i  konventionen, om och i den utsträckning gäldenären inte har  samtyckt till något annat, och
b) innehavaren av en säkerhetsrätt som gäldenärens rätt är  belastad med enligt artikel 29(4)(a) i konventionen, men  endast i den utsträckning som innehavaren har samtyckt till  detta.
2. Inget i konventionen eller detta protokoll ska påverka  borgenärens ansvar vid avtalsbrott enligt tillämplig lag,  såvida avtalet avser rullande järnvägsmateriel.
Kapitel III
Bestämmelser om registrering av internationella  säkerhetsrätter i rullande järnvägsmateriel
Artikel XII - Tillsynsmyndigheten  och registratorn
1. Tillsynsmyndigheten är ett organ som bildas av  representanter, varav en representant ska utses
a) av varje stat som är part,
b) av var och en av maximalt tre andra stater som ska utses  av Internationella institutet för harmonisering av  privaträtten (Unidroit), och
c) av var och en av maximalt tre andra stater som ska utses  av den mellanstatliga organisationen för internationell  järnvägstrafik (OTIF).
2. Vid valet av de stater som avses i stycke (b) och (c) i  föregående punkt ska hänsyn tas till behovet av att  säkerställa en bred geografisk representation.
3. Mandatperioden för de representanter som utses i enlighet  med stycke (b) och (c) i punkt 1 ska fastställas av de  nominerande organisationerna. Mandatperioden för de  representanter som utför sina uppdrag den dag då detta  protokoll träder i kraft för den tionde stat som är part ska  löpa ut senast två år efter den dagen.
4. De representanter som avses i punkt 1 ska anta  tillsynsmyndighetens preliminära förfaranderegler. Ett  antagande kräver samtycke från
a) en majoritet av samtliga representanter, och
b) en majoritet av de representanter som utsetts i enlighet  med stycket (a) i punkt 1.
5. Tillsynsmyndigheten kan inrätta en kommitté av experter  bestående av
a) personer som nominerats av de undertecknande och  fördragsslutande staterna och som har erforderlig kompetens  och erfarenhet, och
b) andra experter efter behov, och ge kommittén i uppgift att  bistå tillsynsmyndigheten i dess fullgörande av sina  uppgifter.
6. Ett sekretariat (sekretariatet) ska bistå  tillsynsmyndigheten i dess fullgörande av sina uppgifter i  enlighet med tillsynsmyndighetens anvisningar.  Sekretariatsuppgifterna ska utföras av den mellanstatliga  organisationen för internationell järnvägstrafik (OTIF).
7. Om sekretariatet inte längre kan eller vill fullgöra  sina uppgifter ska tillsynsmyndigheten utse ett annat  sekretariat.
8. Sekretariatet ska, efter att ha försäkrat sig om att det  internationella registret är i full drift, deponera ett intyg  om detta hos depositarien.
9. Sekretariatet ska åtnjuta status som juridisk person, om  det inte redan har det, och ska i fråga om sina uppgifter  enligt konventionen och protokollet åtnjuta samma befrielse  och immunitet som tillkommer tillsynsmyndigheten enligt  artikel 27(3) i konventionen och som tillkommer det  internationella registret enligt artikel 27(4) i  konventionen.
10. En åtgärd från tillsynsmyndighetens sida som endast berör  en parts eller en grupp parters intressen får vidtas, om  parten eller majoriteten av gruppen av parter i fråga godkänner åtgärden. En åtgärd som skulle kunna påverka en parts eller  flera en grupp parters intressen negativt, får verkan i den  eller dessa parter, om parten eller majoriteten av gruppen av  parter i fråga godkänner åtgärden.
11. Den första registratorn ska utnämnas för en mandatperiod  på minst fem och högst tio år. Därefter ska registratorns  mandat förlängas eller en ny registrator utnämnas för en  mandatperiod på högst tio år.
Artikel XIII - Utseende av kontaktpunkter
1. En fördragsslutande stat kan när som helst, genom att  lämna en förklaring, utse ett eller flera organ till  kontaktpunkt eller kontaktpunkter, genom vilken eller vilka  det ska eller får till det internationella registret  överföras information som krävs för registrering, med  undantag för registrering av ett meddelande om en nationell  säkerhetsrätt eller om en rättighet eller säkerhetsrätt  enligt artikel 40 i konventionen på grundval av lagen i en  annan stat. De olika kontaktpunkterna ska vara aktiva minst  under den kontorstid som tillämpas inom respektive  territorium.
2. Vid utseende av kontaktpunkt enligt föregående punkt är  det tillåtet, men inte obligatoriskt, att utse en eller flera  kontaktpunkter för de uppgifter som krävs för registrering av  försäljningsmeddelanden.
Artikel XIV - Identifiering av rullande järnvägsmateriel  för registreringsändamål
1. Vid tillämpningen av artikel 18(1)(a) i konventionen ska  regelverket innehålla villkor för registratorns tilldelning  av identifikationsnummer som möjliggör en unik identifiering  av delar av rullande järnvägsmateriel. Detta  identifikationsnummer ska
a) anbringas på den berörda delen av den rullande  järnvägsmaterielen,
b) i det internationella registret kopplas samman med  tillverkarens namn och identifikationsnummer för den berörda  delen, eller
c) i det internationella registret kopplas samman med ett  nationellt eller regionalt identifikationsnummer för den  berörda delen.
2. Vid tillämpningen av föregående punkt får en  fördragsslutande stat, genom att lämna en förklaring, ange  vilket system med nationella eller regionala  identifikationsnummer som ska tillämpas på delar av rullande  järnvägsmateriel som omfattas av en internationell  säkerhetsrätt som bildas eller föreskrivs, eller kommer att  bildas eller föreskrivas, i ett avtal som ingås av en  gäldenär som befinner sig i den fördragsslutande staten när  avtalet ingås. Ett sådant nationellt eller regionalt  identifikationssystem ska, enligt överenskommelse mellan  tillsynsmyndigheten och den fördragsslutande stat som avger  förklaringen, möjliggöra en unik identifiering av varje del  av den rullande järnvägsmateriel som systemet omfattar.
3. Den förklaring som en fördragsslutande parten kan lämna  i enlighet med föregående punkt ska innehålla utförlig  information om driften av det nationella eller regionala  identifikationssystemet.
4. Vid registreringen av rullande järnvägsmateriel, för  vilken det avgetts en förklaring enligt punkt 2, ska, för att  registreringen ska vara giltig, alla de nationella eller  regionala identifikationsnummer som materielen förknippats  med sedan ikraftträdandet av detta protokoll enligt artikel  XXIII(1) anges, samt under vilken tid materielen förknippats  med varje nummer.
Artikel XV - Ytterligare ändringar av bestämmelserna om  registret
1. Vid tillämpningen av artikel 19(6) i konventionen ska  sökkriterierna i det internationella registret fastställas i  föreskrifter.
2. Vid tillämpningen av artikel 25(2) i konventionen och  under de omständigheter som anges däri, ska innehavaren av en  registrerad framtida internationell säkerhetsrätt eller av en  registrerad framtida överlåtelse av en internationell  säkerhetsrätt vidta åtgärder för att upphäva registreringen  senast tio kalenderdagar från mottagandet av en begäran  enligt den punkten.
3. Om ett avtal om efterställning har registrerats och  gäldenärens förpliktelser gentemot förmånstagaren har  fullgjorts ska förmånstagaren vidta åtgärder för att upphäva  registreringen senast tio kalenderdagar från det att en  skriftlig begäran från den efterställda parten lämnats till  eller mottagits på förmånstagarens adress som angetts vid  registreringen.
4. De centrala funktionerna i det internationella registret  ska styras och administreras dygnet runt av registratorn.
5. Registratorn ska enligt artikel 28(1) i konventionen  ansvara för skada till ett belopp som högst motsvarar värdet  av den rullande järnvägsmateriel som skadan avser. Utan  hinder av föregående mening ska registratorns ansvar under  ett och samma kalenderår uppgå till högst 5 miljoner  särskilda dragningsrätter, eller ett högre belopp som  beräknats enligt en metod som tillsynsmyndigheten beslutar  om.
6. Föregående punkt ska inte begränsa registratorns  skadeståndsansvar för skada som registratorn, dess tjänstemän  och anställda orsakat genom grov oaktsamhet eller uppsåtligt  handlande.
7. Försäkringsbeloppet eller den ekonomiska garanti som  avses i artikel 28(4) i konventionen ska minst uppgå till det  belopp som tillsynsmyndigheten fastställt som lämpligt med  hänsyn till registratorns eventuella ansvar.
8. Inget i  konventionen ska hindra registratorn från att teckna  försäkring eller förse sig med en garanti som täcker sådana  skadehändelser för vilka registratorn inte är ansvarig enligt  artikel 28 i konventionen.
Artikel XVI - Internationella registreringsavgifter
1. Tillsynsmyndigheten ska fastställa och får från tid till  annan ändra de avgifter som ska betalas i samband med  registrering, inlämning, sökning och andra tjänster som det  internationella registret tillhandahåller i enlighet med  regelverket.
2. De avgifter som avses i föregående punkt ska fastställas  på en nivå som, i den utsträckning som krävs, täcker skäliga  kostnader för att inrätta, genomföra och driva det  internationella registret, samt sekretariatets skäliga  kostnader för att fullgöra sitt uppdrag. Ingenting i denna  punkt ska hindra registratorn att bedriva sin verksamhet med  en skälig vinst.
Artikel XVII - Försäljningsmeddelanden
Meddelanden om försäljning av rullande järnvägsmateriel ska  enligt regelverket kunna registreras i det internationella  registret. Bestämmelserna i detta kapitel och i kapitel V i  konventionen ska, i tillämpliga fall, tillämpas på dessa  registreringar. Registreringar och sökningar som görs eller  intyg som utfärdas med anledning av ett försäljningsmeddelande  får dock inte ha något annat syfte än att informera och ska inte  påverka någon persons rättigheter eller ha någon annan effekt  enligt konventionen eller detta protokoll.
Kapitel IV
Artikel XVIII - Dispensklausul om immunitet
1. Med förbehåll för punkt 2 ska en dispensklausul från  immunitet mot rättsliga förfaranden gentemot domstolarna som  anges i artikel 42 eller 43 i konventionen, eller i fråga om  verkställighet av rättigheter och säkerhetsrätter avseende  rullande järnvägsmateriel enligt konventionen, vara bindande  och, om övriga villkor för jurisdiktion och verkställighet är  uppfyllda, medföra jurisdiktion och tillåta verkställighet  beroende på omständigheterna.
2. En dispensklausul enligt föregående punkt måste vara  skriftlig och innehålla en beskrivning av den rullande  järnvägsmaterielen i enlighet med artikel V(1) i detta  protokoll.
Kapitel V
Förhållande till andra konventioner
Artikel XIX - Förhållande till Unidroits konvention om  internationell finansiell leasing
Om bestämmelserna skiljer sig åt ska konventionen ha  företräde framför Unidroits konvention om internationell  finansiell leasing, undertecknad i Ottawa den 28 maj 1988.
Artikel XX - Förhållande till konventionen om internationell  järnvägstrafik (COTIF)
Om bestämmelserna skiljer sig åt ska konventionen ha  företräde framför konventionen om internationell  järnvägstrafik (COTIF) av den 9 maj 1980, i dess lydelse  enligt ändringsprotokollet av den 3 juni 1999.
Kapitel VI
Slutbestämmelser
Artikel XXI - Undertecknande, ratifikation, godtagande,  godkännande eller anslutning
1. Detta protokoll ska vara öppet för undertecknande i  Luxemburg den 23 februari 2007 för de stater som deltog i den  diplomatkonferens för att anta ett järnvägsprotokoll till  konventionen om internationella säkerhetsrätter i lösa saker  som ägde rum i Luxemburg den 12-23 februari 2007. Efter den 
23 februari 2007 ska detta protokoll vara öppet för  undertecknande för alla stater vid Unidroits säte i Rom tills  det träder i kraft i enlighet med artikel XXIII.
2. Detta protokoll ska ratificeras, godtas eller godkännas av  de stater som har undertecknat det.
3. En stat som inte undertecknar detta protokoll får när som  helst därefter ansluta sig till det.
4. Ratifikation, godtagande, godkännande eller anslutning  sker genom deponering av ett formellt instrument härom hos  depositarien.
5. En stat får inte bli part i detta protokoll om den inte  också är eller blir part i konventionen.
Artikel XXII - Regionala organisationer för ekonomisk  integration
1. En regional organisation för ekonomisk integration som  utgörs av suveräna stater och har behörighet på vissa områden  som omfattas av detta protokoll får på samma sätt  underteckna, godta godkänna eller ansluta sig till detta  protokoll. Den regionala organisationen för ekonomisk  integration ska då ha samma rättigheter och skyldigheter som  en fördragsslutande stat, i den mån organisationen har  behörighet på områden som omfattas av detta protokoll. I de  fall antalet fördragsslutande stater är relevant i detta  protokoll ska den regionala organisationen för ekonomisk  integration inte räknas som en fördragsslutande stat utöver  dess medlemsstater som är fördragsslutande stater.
2. Vid undertecknandet, godtagandet, godkännandet eller  anslutningen ska den regionala organisationen för ekonomisk  integration till depositarien lämna en förklaring om på vilka  av de områden som omfattas av detta protokoll dess  medlemsstater har delegerat sin behörighet till  organisationen. Den regionala organisationen ska utan  dröjsmål underrätta depositarien om den behörighetsfördelning  som anges i den förklaring som avges enligt denna punkt  skulle ändras, däribland om ny behörighet delegeras.
3. Hänvisningar till "fördragsslutande stat", 
"fördragsslutande stater", "stat som är part" eller "stater  som är parter" i detta protokoll ska gälla även för en  regional organisation för ekonomisk integration, när detta  framgår av sammanhanget.
Artikel XXIII - Ikraftträdande
1. Detta protokoll träder i kraft mellan de stater som har  deponerat de i stycket (a) nämnda instrumenten den senare av  följande dagar:
a) Den första dagen i den månad som följer efter det att tre  månader förflutit efter den dag, då det fjärde  ratifikations-, godtagande-, godkännande- eller  anslutningsinstrumentet deponerats.
b) Den dag då sekretariatet hos depositarien deponerar ett  intyg som bekräftar att det internationella registret är i  full drift.
2. För andra stater träder detta protokoll i kraft den första  dagen i den månad som följer på den senare av följande  dagar:
a) När tre månader förflutit efter den dag då statens  ratifikations-, godtagande-, godkännande- eller  anslutningsinstrument deponerades.
b) Den dag som avses i stycket (b) i föregående punkt.
Artikel XXIV - Territoriella enheter
1. Om en fördragsslutande stat har territoriella enheter i  vilka olika rättssystem tillämpas på områden som regleras i  detta protokoll, får den vid ratifikationen, godtagandet,  godkännandet eller anslutningen förklara att detta protokoll  ska tillämpas i alla dess territoriella enheter eller endast  i någon eller några av dessa, och staten får när som helst  ändra förklaringen genom att lämna en ny förklaring.
2. I en sådan förklaring ska meddelas depositarien och  uttryckligen anges inom vilka territoriella enheter  protokollet ska tillämpas.
3. Om en fördragsslutande stat inte avgett någon förklaring  enligt punkt 1, ska detta protokoll tillämpas på alla  territoriella enheter i denna stat.
4. Om en fördragsslutande stat utsträcker tillämpningen av  detta protokoll till att omfatta en eller flera av sina  territoriella enheter, får de förklaringar som tillåts enligt  protokollet avges för var och en av dessa territoriella  enheter och de avgivna förklaringarna kan ha olika lydelser  för olika territoriella enheter.
5. Om detta protokoll enligt en förklaring som avgetts enligt  punkt 1 ska tillämpas på en eller flera territoriella enheter  i en fördragsslutande stat ska
a) gäldenären anses befinna sig i en fördragsslutande stat  endast om gäldenären har bildats enligt en lag som är i kraft  i en territoriell enhet i vilken konventionen och detta  protokoll ska tillämpas, eller har sitt registrerade säte,  huvudkontor, driftställe eller sin hemvist i en territoriell  enhet där konventionen och detta protokoll ska tillämpas,
b) varje hänvisning till var den rullande järnvägsmaterielen  befinner sig i en fördragsslutande stat avse var den rullande  järnvägsmaterielen befinner sig i en territoriell enhet där  konventionen och detta protokoll ska tillämpas, och
c) varje hänvisning till administrativa myndigheter i den  fördragsslutande staten uppfattas som de behöriga  administrativa myndigheterna i en territoriell enhet där  konventionen och detta protokoll ska tillämpas.
Artikel XXV - Rullande järnvägsmateriel för offentliga  ändamål
1. En fördragsslutande stat får när som helst förklara att  den, i enlighet med vad den angett i sin förklaring, kommer  att fortsätta att tillämpa gällande nationell lagstiftning  som utesluter, förhindrar eller reglerar genomförandet av  någon av de åtgärder som anges i kapitel III i konventionen  och artiklarna VII-IX i detta protokoll på sitt territorium  när det gäller rullande järnvägsmateriel som normalt används  för att tillhandahålla en tjänst av allmänt intresse 
(rullande järnvägsmateriel för offentliga ändamål) i enlighet  med den förklaring som lämnats till depositarien.
2. Den person, inklusive en statlig eller annan offentlig  myndighet, som, enligt lagstiftningen i en fördragsslutande  stat som avger en förklaring enligt föregående punkt, har  befogenhet att ta i besittning, använda eller kontrollera  rullande järnvägsmateriel, ska bevara och underhålla denna  materiel från den tidpunkt då befogenheten utövas fram till  dess att borgenären åter har tagit materielen i sin  besittning eller kan använda eller kontrollera denna.
3. Under den tidsperiod som anges i föregående punkt ska  den person som avses i samma punkt till gäldenären också  betala eller sörja för betalning av ett belopp som motsvarar  det högsta av
a) det belopp som personen är skyldig att betala enligt  lagstiftningen i den fördragsslutande stat som avger  förklaringen, och
b) marknadshyran för sådan rullande järnvägsmateriel.
Den första av dessa betalningar ska erläggas inom tio  kalenderdagar från den dag då befogenheten utövas, och därpå  följande betalningar ska erläggas den första dagen i varje  efterföljande månad. Om det belopp som förfaller till  betalning en viss månad överstiger det belopp som gäldenären  är skyldig borgenären ska överskottet först betalas ut till  övriga borgenärer i enlighet med deras fordringar och  företrädesordning och därefter till gäldenären.
4. En fördragsslutande stat vars lagstiftning inte  innehåller de skyldigheter som anges i punkterna 2 och 3 får,  i enlighet med vad den angett i en separat förklaring till  depositarien, förklara att den inte kommer att tillämpa dessa  punkter på den rullande järnvägsmateriel som anges i den  förklaringen. Ingenting i denna punkt ska hindra en person  att avtala med borgenären om att fullgöra de skyldigheter som  anges i punkterna 2 eller 3 eller påverka möjligheterna att  genomföra ett sådant avtal.
5. En inledande eller senare förklaring som en  fördragsslutande stat avger enligt denna artikel ska inte  negativt påverka borgenärernas rättigheter och  säkerhetsrätter enligt ett avtal som ingåtts före den dag då  depositarien mottar förklaringen.
6. En fördragsslutande stat som avger en förklaring enligt  denna artikel ska ta hänsyn till skyddet av borgenärernas  intressen och förklaringens inverkan på tillgången till  kredit.
Artikel XXVI - Övergångsbestämmelser
När det gäller rullande järnvägsmateriel ska artikel 60 i  konventionen ändras på följande sätt:
a) I punkt 2(a) ska orden "vid den tidpunkt då rättigheten  eller säkerhetsrätten bildas eller uppkommer" infogas efter 
"befinner sig".
b) Punkt 3 ska ersättas med följande:
"3. En fördragsslutande stat får i en förklaring enligt punkt 
1 ange ett datum som ska infalla tidigast tre år och senast  tio år efter den dag då förklaringen får verkan, från och med  vilket artiklarna 29, 35 och 36 i denna konvention, i deras  ändrade lydelse enligt protokollet, i den utsträckning och på  det sätt som anges i förklaringen, ska tillämpas på redan  befintliga rättigheter eller säkerhetsrätter som uppkommit  genom ett avtal som ingåtts när gäldenären befann sig i den  staten. En rättighets eller säkerhetsrätts eventuella  företräde enligt den statens nationella lagstiftning ska, i  tillämpliga fall, fortsätta att gälla om rättigheten eller  säkerhetsrätten i fråga registreras i det internationella  registret före utgången av den period som fastställs i  förklaringen, oavsett om någon tidigare rättighet eller  säkerhetsrätt har registrerats."
Artikel XXVII - Förklaringar som rör vissa bestämmelser
1. En fördragsslutande stat får vid ratifikationen,  godtagandet eller godkännandet av detta protokoll eller  anslutningen till detta, förklara att staten kommer att  tillämpa antingen artikel VI eller artikel X i detta  protokoll, eller båda dessa artiklar.
2. En fördragsslutande stat får vid ratifikationen,  godtagandet eller godkännandet av detta protokoll eller  anslutningen till detta förklara att staten helt eller delvis  kommer att tillämpa artikel VIII. Om staten avger denna  förklaring ska staten ange den tidsperiod som fastställs i  artikel VIII(2).
3. En fördragsslutande stat får vid ratifikationen,  godtagandet eller godkännandet av detta protokoll eller  anslutningen till detta förklara att den kommer att tillämpa  antingen alternativ A, B eller C i artikel IX i sin helhet  och ska, i så fall, ange på vilka, om några, typer av  insolvensförfaranden som den kommer att tillämpa detta  alternativ. En fördragsslutande part som avger en förklaring  enligt denna punkt ska, alltefter omständigheterna, ange den  tidsperiod som fastställs i artikel IX(4) för alternativ A,  artikel IX(3) för alternativ B eller artikel IX(5) och IX(15)  för alternativ C.
4. Domstolarna i de fördragsslutande staterna ska tillämpa  artikel IX i enlighet med den förklaring som har avgetts av  den fördragsslutande stat med primär jurisdiktion över  insolvensförfarandet.
Artikel XXVIII - Reservationer och förklaringar
1. Ingen reservation får göras mot detta protokoll, men  förklaringar som är tillåtna enligt artiklarna XIII, XIV,  XXIV, XXV, XXVII, XXIX och XXX får avges i enlighet med dessa  bestämmelser.
2. Varje förklaring, efterföljande förklaring eller  återkallande av förklaring enligt detta protokoll ska anmälas  skriftligen till depositarien.
Artikel XXIX - Förklaringar enligt konventionen
1. De förklaringar som avgetts enligt konventionen,  inbegripet de som avgetts enligt artiklarna 39, 40, 50, 53, 
54, 55, 57, 58 och 60 i konventionen, ska också anses ha  avgetts enligt detta protokoll, om inte annat anges.
2. Vid tillämpningen av artikel 50(1) i konventionen ska  begreppet "intern transaktion" när det gäller rullande  järnvägsmateriel även omfatta transaktioner av det slag som  anges i artikel 2(2)(a)-(c) i konventionen om den berörda  rullande järnvägsmaterielen normalt endast kan användas i ett  enkelspårigt järnvägssystem inom den berörda fördragsslutande  staten på grund av spårvidd eller andra omständigheter som  påverkar den rullande järnvägsmaterielens utformning.
Artikel XXX - Efterföljande förklaringar
1. En stat som är part får lämna en efterföljande  förklaring, med undantag för en förklaring som avges i  enlighet med artikel XXIX enligt artikel 60 i konventionen,  när som helst från och med den dag då detta protokoll träder  i kraft för den berörda staten, genom en anmälan därom till  depositarien.
2. Varje sådan efterföljande förklaring får verkan den  första dagen i den månad som följer efter det att sex månader  förflutit från och med den dag då depositarien mottog  anmälan. Om det i anmälan anges att förklaringen ska få  verkan först efter en längre tid, ska förklaringen få verkan  när den tid som angetts har förflutit från det att  depositarien mottog anmälan.
3. Trots föregående punkter ska detta protokoll fortsätta att  tillämpas som om en sådan efterföljande förklaring inte hade  avgetts i fråga om alla rättigheter och säkerhetsrätter som  uppkommit före den dag då den efterföljande förklaringen fick  verkan.
Artikel XXXI - Återkallande av förklaringar
1. Varje stat som är part och har avgett en förklaring  enligt detta protokoll får, med undantag för en förklaring  som avgetts i enlighet med artikel XXIX enligt artikel 60 i  konventionen, när som helst återkalla förklaringen genom en  anmälan därom till depositarien. Ett sådant återkallande får  verkan den första dagen i den månad som följer efter det att  sex månader har förflutit från den dag då depositarien mottog  anmälan.
2. Trots föregående punkt ska detta protokoll fortsätta att  tillämpas som om ingen återkallelse av förklaringen hade  gjorts i fråga om alla rättigheter och säkerhetsrätter som  uppkommit före den dag då återkallandet fick verkan.
Artikel XXXII - Uppsägning
1. Varje stat som är part får säga upp detta protokoll genom  skriftlig anmälan till depositarien.
2. En sådan uppsägning får verkan den första dagen i den månad  som följer efter det att tolv månader förflutit från den dag då  depositarien mottog anmälan.
3. Trots föregående punkter ska detta protokoll fortsätta  att till-lämpas som om en sådan uppsägning inte hade skett i  fråga om alla rättigheter och säkerhetsrätter som uppkommit  före den dag då uppsägningen fick verkan.
Artikel XXXIII - Konferenser för utvärdering, ändringar och  därtill hörande frågor
1. Depositarien ska varje år, eller med annat lämpligt  tidsintervall, i samråd med tillsynsmyndigheten utarbeta  rapporter riktade till de stater som är parter om hur den  internationella ordning som inrättas genom konventionen,  ändrad genom protokollet, fungerar i praktiken. Depositarien  ska utarbeta rapporterna med beaktande av  tillsynsmyndighetens rapporter om driften av det  internationella registreringssystemet.
2. På begäran av minst tjugofem procent av de stater som är  parter ska depositarien i samråd med tillsynsmyndigheten  anordna återkommande utvärderingskonferenser för genomgång  av
a) hur konventionen, ändrad genom detta protokoll, tillämpas  i praktiken och i vilken grad finansiering mot säkerhetsrätt  i tillgångar och leasing av egendom som faller inom  konventionens tillämpningsområde faktiskt underlättas genom  konventionen,
b) hur bestämmelserna i detta protokoll och i regelverket  tolkas och tillämpas,
c) hur det internationella inskrivningsregistret,  registratorns verksamhet och tillsynsmyndighetens tillsyn  över registratorn fungerar, på grundval av  tillsynsmyndighetens rapporter, och
d) huruvida detta protokoll eller bestämmelserna om det  internationella registret bör ändras.
3. Varje ändring av detta protokoll måste godkännas med minst  två tredjedels majoritet av de stater som är parter och som  deltar vid konferensen enligt föregående punkt, och ändringen  träder sedan i kraft för de stater som har ratificerat,  godtagit eller godkänt denna sedan den ratificerats,  godtagits eller godkänts av fyra stater i enlighet med  bestämmelserna i artikel XXIII om protokollets  ikraftträdande.
Artikel XXXIV - Depositarien och dess uppgifter
1. Ratifikations-, godtagande-, godkännande- eller  anslutningsinstrument ska deponeras vid Unidroit, nedan  kallad depositarien.
2. Depositarien ska
a) underrätta alla fördragsslutande stater om
i) varje nytt undertecknande eller varje ny deponering av  ratifikations-, godtagande-, godkännande- eller  anslutningsinstrument och om datum för detta undertecknande  eller denna deponering,
ii) datum för deponering av det intyg som avses i artikel  XXIII(1)(b),
iii) datum för protokollets ikraftträdande,
iv) varje förklaring som avges enligt detta protokoll samt om  datum för förklaringen,
v) varje återkallande eller ändring av förklaringar, samt om  datum för sådant återkallande eller sådan ändring, och
vi) varje anmälan om uppsägning av detta protokoll samt om  datum för sådan uppsägning och om den dag uppsägningen får  verkan,
b) överlämna bestyrkta avskrifter av detta protokoll till  alla fördragsslutande stater,
c) förse tillsynsmyndigheten och registratorn med en kopia av  varje ratifikations-, godtagande-, godkännande- eller  anslutningsinstrument, tillsammans med datum för deponering  av instrumenten, samt kopior av varje förklaring, eller  återkallande eller ändring av en förklaring samt av varje  anmälan om uppsägning, tillsammans med datum för anmälan, så  att uppgifterna är fullständiga och lättillgängliga, och
d) utföra de övriga uppgifter som normalt åligger  depositarier.
TILL BEKRÄFTELSE HÄRAV har undertecknade befullmäktigade  ombud med stöd av vederbörliga fullmakter undertecknat detta  protokoll.
UPPRÄTTAT i Luxemburg den 23 februari 2007 i ett enda  exemplar på engelska, franska och tyska språken, vilka texter  alla har lika giltighet, vilken giltighet träder ikraft när  konferensens gemensamma sekretariat under överinseende av  konferensens ordförande inom 90 dagar från och med dagen för  denna akt har kontrollerat den inbördes överensstämmelsen  mellan dessa texter.
Lag (2018:475)
.
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.