Title: Lag (2018:1197) om Förenta nationernas konvention om barnets rättigheter
SFS Number: Svensk författningssamling 2018:1197
URL: https://www.riksdagen.se/sv/dokument-och-lagar/dokument/svensk-forfattningssamling/lag-20181197-om-forenta-nationernas-konvention_sfs-2018-1197/
Source Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfst?bet=2018:1197
Amendment Register Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfsr?bet=2018:1197
Ministry/Authority: Socialdepartementet
Issued: 2018-06-20
Metadata: {"Utfärdad": "2018-06-20"}

==================================================

Lag (2018:1197) om Förenta nationernas konvention om barnets rättigheter
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.
SFS nr
:     
2018:1197
Departement/myndighet
:   
Socialdepartementet
Utfärdad
:   
2018-06-20
Ändringsregister
:
SFSR (Regeringskansliet)
Källa
:
Fulltext (Regeringskansliet)
1 §
Artiklarna 1-42 i Förenta nationernas konvention den 
20 november 1989 om barnets rättigheter ska i  originaltexternas lydelse gälla som svensk lag.
Konventionens engelska och franska originaltexter finns  tillsammans med en svensk översättning intagna som en bilaga  till denna lag.
Bilaga
FN:s konvention om barnets rättigheter
Convention on the Rights of the Child
Preamble
The States Parties to the present Convention,
Considering that, in accordance with the principles  proclaimed in the Charter of the United Nations, recognition  of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable  rights of all members of the human family is the foundation  of freedom, justice and peace in the world,
Bearing in mind that the peoples of the United Nations  have, in the Charter, reaffirmed their faith in fundamental  human rights and in the dignity and worth of the human  person, and have determined to promote social progress and  better standards of life in larger freedom,
Recognizing that the United Nations has, in the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights and in the International  Covenants on Human Rights, proclaimed and agreed that  everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth  therein, without distinction of any kind, such as race,  colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion,  national or social origin, property, birth or other status,
Recalling that, in the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights, the United Nations has proclaimed that childhood is  entitled to special care and assistance,
Convinced that the family, as the fundamental group of  society and the natural environment for the growth and  well-being of all its members and particularly children,  should be afforded the necessary protection and assistance so  that it can fully assume its responsibilities within the  community,
Recognizing that the child, for the full and harmonious  development of his or her personality, should grow up in a  family environment, in an atmosphere of happiness, love and  understanding,
Considering that the child should be fully prepared to live  an individual life in society, and brought up in the spirit  of the ideals proclaimed in the Charter of the United  Nations, and in particular in the spirit of peace, dignity,  tolerance, freedom, equality and solidarity,
Bearing in mind that the need to extend particular care to  the child has been stated in the Geneva Declaration of the  Rights of the Child of 1924 and in the Declaration of the  Rights of the Child adopted by the General Assembly on 20  November 1959 and recognized in the Universal Declaration of  Human Rights, in the International Covenant on Civil and  Political Rights (in particular in articles 23 and 24), in  the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural  Rights (in particular in article 10) and in the statutes and  relevant instruments of specialized agencies and  international organizations concerned with the welfare of  children,
Bearing in mind that, as indicated in the Declaration of  the Rights of the Child, "the child, by reason of his  physical and mental immaturity, needs special safeguards and  care, including appropriate legal protection, before as well  as after birth",
Recalling the provisions of the Declaration on Social and  Legal Principles relating to the Protection and Welfare of  Children, with Special Reference to Foster Placement and  Adoption Nationally and Internationally; the United Nations  Standard Minimum Rules for the Administration of Juvenile  Justice (The Beijing Rules); and the Declaration on the  Protection of Women and Children in Emergency and Armed  Conflict,
Recognizing that, in all countries in the world, there are  children living in exceptionally difficult conditions, and  that such children need special consideration,
Taking due account of the importance of the traditions and  cultural values of each people for the protection and  harmonious development of the child,
Recognizing the importance of international co-operation  for improving the living conditions of children in every  country, in particular in the developing countries,
Have agreed as follows:
Part I
Article 1
For the purposes of the present Convention, a child means  every human being below the age of eighteen years unless,  under the law applicable to the child, majority is attained  earlier.
Article 2
 
1. States Parties shall respect and ensure the rights set  forth in the present Convention to each child within their  jurisdiction without discrimination of any kind, irrespective  of the child's or his or her parent's or legal guardian's  race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other  opinion, national, ethnic or social origin, property,  disability, birth or other status.
2. States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to  ensure that the child is protected against all forms of  discrimination or punishment on the basis of the status,  activities, expressed opinions, or beliefs of the child's  parents, legal guardians, or family members.
Article 3
 
1. In all actions concerning children, whether undertaken  by public or private social welfare institutions, courts of  law, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, the  best interests of the child shall be a primary  consideration.
2. States Parties undertake to ensure the child such  protection and care as is necessary for his or her  well-being, taking into account the rights and duties of his  or her parents, legal guardians, or other individuals legally  responsible for him or her, and, to this end, shall take all  appropriate legislative and administrative measures.
3. States Parties shall ensure that the institutions,  services and facilities responsible for the care or  protection of children shall conform with the standards  established by competent authorities, particularly in the  areas of safety, health, in the number and suitability of  their staff, as well as competent supervision.
Article 4
States Parties shall undertake all appropriate legislative,  administrative, and other measures for the implementation of  the rights recognized in the present Convention. With regard  to economic, social and cultural rights, States Parties shall  undertake such measures to the maximum extent of their  available resources and, where needed, within the framework  of international co-operation.
Article 5
States Parties shall respect the responsibilities, rights  and duties of parents or, where applicable, the members of  the extended family or community as provided for by local  custom, legal guardians or other persons legally responsible  for the child, to provide, in a manner consistent with the  evolving capacities of the child, appropriate direction and  guidance in the exercise by the child of the rights  recognized in the present Convention.
Article 6
 
1. States Parties recognize that every child has the  inherent right to life
2. States Parties shall ensure to the maximum extent  possible the survival and development of the child
Article 7
 
1. The child shall be registered immediately after birth  and shall have the right from birth to a name, the right to  acquire a nationality and, as far as possible, the right to  know and be cared for by his or her parents.
2. States Parties shall ensure the implementation of these  rights in accordance with their national law and their  obligations under the relevant international instruments in  this field, in particular where the child would otherwise be  stateless.
Article 8
 
1. States Parties undertake to respect the right of the  child to preserve his or her identity, including nationality,  name and family relations as recognized by law without  unlawful interference.
2. Where a child is illegally deprived of some or all of  the elements of his or her identity, States Parties shall  provide appropriate assistance and protection, with a view to  speedily re-establishing his or her identity.
Article 9
 
1. States Parties shall ensure that a child shall not be  separated from his or her parents against their will, except  when competent authorities subject to judicial review  determine, in accordance with applicable law and procedures,  that such separation is necessary for the best interests of  the child. Such determination may be necessary in a  particular case such as one involving abuse or neglect of the  child by the parents, or one where the parents are living  separately and a decision must be made as to the child's  place of residence.
2. In any proceedings pursuant to paragraph 1 of the  present article, all interested parties shall be given an  opportunity to participate in the proceedings and make their  views known.
3. States Parties shall respect the right of the child who  is separated from one or both parents to maintain personal  relations and direct con-tact with both parents on a regular  basis, except if it is contrary to the child's best  interests.
4. Where such separation results from any action initiated  by a State Party, such as the detention, imprisonment, exile,  deportation or death (including death arising from any cause  while the person is in the custody of the State) of one or  both parents or of the child, that State Party shall, upon  request, provide the parents, the child or, if appropriate,  another member of the family with the essential in- formation  concerning the whereabouts of the absent member(s) of the  family unless the provision of the information would be  detrimental to the well-being of the child. States Parties  shall further ensure that the submission of such a request  shall of itself entail no adverse consequences for the  person(s) concerned.
Article 10
1. In accordance with the obligation of States Parties  under article 9, paragraph 1, applications by a child or his  or her parents to enter or leave a State Party for the  purpose of family reunification shall be dealt with by States  Parties in a positive, humane and expeditious manner. States  Parties shall further ensure that the submission of such a  request shall entail no adverse consequences for the  applicants and for the members of their family.
2. A child whose parents reside in different States shall  have the right to maintain on a regular basis, save in  exceptional circumstances personal relations and direct  contacts with both parents. Towards that end and in  accordance with the obligation of States Parties under  article 9, paragraph 1, States Parties shall respect the  right of the child and his or her parents to leave any  country, including their own, and to enter their own country.  The right to leave any country shall be subject only to such  restrictions as are prescribed by law and which are necessary  to protect the national security, public order (ordre  public), public health or morals or the rights and freedoms  of others and are consistent with the other rights recognized  in the present Convention.
Article 11
1. States Parties shall take measures to combat the illicit  transfer and non-return of children abroad.
2. To this end, States Parties shall promote the conclusion  of bilateral or multilateral agreements or accession to  existing agreements.
Article 12
1. States Parties shall assure to the child who is capable  of forming his or her own views the right to express those  views freely in all matters affecting the child, the views of  the child being given due weight in accordance with the age  and maturity of the child.
2. For this purpose, the child shall in particular be  provided the opportunity to be heard in any judicial and  administrative proceedings affecting the child, either  directly, or through a representative or an appropriate body,  in a manner consistent with the procedural rules of national  law.
Article 13
1. The child shall have the right to freedom of expression;  this right shall include freedom to seek, receive and impart  information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers,  either orally, in writing or in print, in the form of art, or  through any other media of the child's choice.
2. The exercise of this right may be subject to certain  restrictions, but these shall only be such as are provided by  law and are necessary:
(a) For respect of the rights or reputations of others; or
(b) For the protection of national security or of public  order (ordre public), or of public health or morals.
Article 14
1. States Parties shall respect the right of the child to  freedom of thought, conscience and religion.
2. Parties shall respect the rights and duties of the  parents and, when applicable, legal guardians, to provide  direction to the child in the exercise of his or her right in  a manner consistent with the evolving capacities of the  child.
3. Freedom to manifest one's religion or beliefs may be  subject only to such limitations as are prescribed by law and  are necessary to protect public safety, order, health or  morals, or the fundamental rights and freedoms of others.
Article 15
1. States Parties recognize the rights of the child to  freedom of association and to freedom of peaceful assembly.
2. No restrictions may be placed on the exercise of these  rights other than those imposed in conformity with the law  and which are necessary in a democratic society in the  interests of national security or public safety, public order 
(ordre public), the protection of public health or morals or  the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.
Article 16
1. No child shall be subjected to arbitrary or unlawful  interference with his or her privacy, family, home or  correspondence, nor to unlawful attacks on his or her honour  and reputation.
2. The child has the right to the protection of the law  against such interference or attacks.
Article 17
States Parties recognize the important function performed  by the mass media and shall ensure that the child has access  to information and material from a diversity of national and  international sources, especially those aimed at the  promotion of his or her social, spiritual and moral  well-being and physical and mental health. To this end,  States Parties shall:
(a) Encourage the mass media to disseminate information and  material of social and cultural benefit to the child and in  accordance with the spirit of article 29;
(b) Encourage international co-operation in the production,  exchange and dissemination of such information and material  from a diversity of cultural, national and international  sources;
(c) Encourage the production and dissemination of  children's books;
(d) Encourage the mass media to have particular regard to  the linguistic needs of the child who belongs to a minority  group or who is indigenous;
(e) Encourage the development of appropriate guidelines for  the protection of the child from information and material  injurious to his or her well-being, bearing in mind the  provisions of articles 13 and 18.
Article 18
1. States Parties shall use their best efforts to ensure  recognition of the principle that both parents have common  responsibilities for the upbringing and development of the  child. Parents or, as the case may be, legal guardians, have  the primary responsibility for the upbringing and development  of the child. The best interests of the child will be their  basic concern.
2. For the purpose of guaranteeing and pro-moting the  rights set forth in the present Convention, States Parties  shall render appropriate assistance to parents and legal  guardians in the performance of their child-rearing  responsibilities and shall ensure the development of  institutions, facilities and services for the care of  children.
3. States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to  ensure that children of working parents have the right to  benefit from childcare services and facilities for which they  are eligible.
Article 19
1. States Parties shall take all appropriate legislative,  administrative, social and educational measures to protect  the child from all forms of physical or mental violence,  injury or abuse, neglect or negligent treatment, maltreatment  or exploitation, including sexual abuse, while in the care of  parent(s), legal guardian(s) or any other person who has the  care of the child.
2. Such protective measures should, as appropriate, include  effective procedures for the establishment of social  programmes to provide necessary support for the child and for  those who have the care of the child, as well as for other  forms of prevention and for identification, reporting,  referral, investigation, treatment and follow-up of instances  of child maltreatment described heretofore, and, as  appropriate, for judicial involvement.
Article 20
1. A child temporarily or permanently deprived of his or  her family environment, or in whose own best interests cannot  be allowed to remain in that environment, shall be entitled  to special protection and assistance provided by the State.
2. States Parties shall in accordance with their national  laws ensure alternative care for such a child.
3. Such care could include, inter alia, foster placement,  kafalah of Islamic law, adoption or if necessary placement in  suitable institutions for the care of children. When  considering solutions, due regard shall be paid to the  desirability of continuity in a child's upbringing and to the  child's ethnic, religious, cultural and linguistic  background.
Article 21
States Parties that recognize and/or permit the system of  adoption shall ensure that the best interests of the child  shall be the paramount consideration and they shall:
(a) Ensure that the adoption of a child is authorized only  by competent authorities who determine, in accordance with  applicable law and procedures and on the basis of all  pertinent and reliable information, that the adoption is  permissible in view of the child's status concerning parents,  relatives and legal guardians and that, if required, the  persons concerned have given their informed consent to the  adoption on the basis of such counselling as may be  necessary;
(b) Recognize that intercountry adoption may be considered  as an alternative means of child's care, if the child cannot  be placed in a foster or an adoptive family or cannot in any  suitable manner be cared for in the child's country of  origin;
(c) Ensure that the child concerned by intercountry  adoption enjoys safeguards and standards equivalent to those  existing in the case of national adoption;
(d) Take all appropriate measures to ensure that, in  intercountry adoption, the placement does not result in  improper financial gain for those involved in it;
(e) Promote, where appropriate, the objectives of the  present article by concluding bilateral or multilateral  arrangements or agreements, and endeavour, within this  framework, to ensure that the placement of the child in  another country is carried out by competent authorities or  organs.
Article 22
1. States Parties shall take appropriate measures to ensure  that a child who is seeking refugee status or who is  considered a refugee in accordance with applicable  international or domestic law and procedures shall, whether  unaccompanied or accompanied by his or her parents or by any  other person, receive appropriate protection and humanitarian  assistance in the enjoyment of applicable rights set forth in  the present Convention and in other international human  rights or humanitarian instruments to which the said States  are Parties.
2. For this purpose, States Parties shall provide, as they  consider appropriate, co-operation in any efforts by the  United Nations and other competent intergovernmental  organizations or non-govern-mental organizations co-operating  with the United Nations to protect and assist such a child  and to trace the parents or other members of the family of  any refugee child in order to obtain information necessary  for reunification with his or her family. In cases where no  parents or other members of the family can be found, the  child shall be accorded the same protection as any other  child permanently or temporarily deprived of his or her  family environment for any reason, as set forth in the  present Convention.
Article 23
1. States Parties recognize that a mentally or physically  disabled child should enjoy a full and decent life, in  conditions which ensure dignity, promote self-reliance and  facilitate the child's active participation in the  community.
2. States Parties recognize the right of the disabled child  to special care and shall encourage and ensure the extension,  subject to available resources, to the eligible child and  those responsible for his or her care, of assistance for  which application is made and which is appropriate to the  child's condition and to the circumstances of the parents or  others caring for the child.
3. Recognizing the special needs of a disabled child,  assistance extended in accordance with paragraph 2 of the  present article shall be provided free of charge, whenever  possible, taking into account the financial resources of the  parents or others caring for the child, and shall be designed  to ensure that the disabled child has effective access to and  receives education, training, health care services,  rehabilitation services, preparation for employment and  recreation opportunities in a manner conducive to the child's  achieving the fullest possible social integration and  individual development, including his or her cultural and  spiritual development.
4. States Parties shall promote, in the spirit of  international co-operation, the exchange of appropriate  information in the field of preventive health care and of  medical, psychological and functional treatment of disabled  children, including dissemination of and access to  information concerning methods of rehabilitation, education  and vocational services, with the aim of enabling States  Parties to improve their capabilities and skills and to widen  their experience in these areas. In this regard, particular  account shall be taken of the needs of developing  countries.
Article 24
1. States Parties recognize the right of the child to the  enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health and to  facilities for the treatment of illness and rehabilitation of  health. States Parties shall strive to ensure that no child  is deprived of his or her right of access to such health care  services.
2. States Parties shall pursue full implementation of this  right and, in particular, shall take appropriate measures:
(a) To diminish infant and child mortality;
(b) To ensure the provision of necessary medical assistance  and health care to all children with emphasis on the  development of primary health care;
(c) To combat disease and malnutrition, including within  the framework of primary health care, through, inter alia,  the application of readily available technology and through  the provision of adequate nutritious foods and clean  drinking-water, taking into consideration the dangers and  risks of environmental pollution;
(d) To ensure appropriate prenatal and post-natal health  care for mothers;
(e) To ensure that all segments of society, in particular  parents and children, are informed, have access to education  and are supported in the use of basic knowledge of child  health and nutrition, the advantages of breast-feeding,  hygiene and environmental sanitation and the prevention of  accidents;
(f) To develop preventive health care, guidance for parents  and family planning education and services.
3. States Parties shall take all effective and appropriate  measures with a view to abolishing traditional practices  prejudicial to the health of children.
4. States Parties undertake to promote and encourage  international co-operation with a view to achieving  progressively the full realization of the right recognized in  the present article. In this regard, particular account shall  be taken of the needs of developing countries.
Article 25
States Parties recognize the right of a child who has been  placed by the competent authorities for the purposes of care,  protection or treatment of his or her physical or mental  health, to a periodic review of the treatment provided to the  child and all other circumstances relevant to his or her  placement.
Article 26
1. States Parties shall recognize for every child the right  to benefit from social security, including social insurance,  and shall take the necessary measures to achieve the full  realization of this right in accordance with their national  law.
2. The benefits should, where appropriate, be granted,  taking into account the resources and the circumstances of  the child and persons having responsibility for the  maintenance of the child, as well as any other consideration  relevant to an application for benefits made by or on behalf  of the child.
Article 27
1. States Parties recognize the right of every child to a  standard of living adequate for the child's physical, mental,  spiritual, moral and social development.
2. The parent(s) or others responsible for the child have  the primary responsibility to secure, within their abilities  and financial capacities, the conditions of living necessary  for the child's development.
3. States Parties, in accordance with national conditions  and within their means, shall take appropriate measures to  assist parents and others responsible for the child to  implement this right and shall in case of need provide  material assistance and support programmes, particularly with  regard to nutrition, clothing and housing.
4. States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to  secure the recovery of maintenance for the child from the  parents or other persons having financial responsibility for  the child, both within the State Party and from abroad. In  particular, where the person having financial responsibility  for the child lives in a State different from that of the  child, States Parties shall promote the accession to  international agreements or the conclusion of such  agreements, as well as the making of other appropriate  arrangements.
Article 28
1. States Parties recognize the right of the child to  education, and with a view to achieving this right  progressively and on the basis of equal opportunity, they  shall, in particular:
(a) Make primary education compulsory and available free to  all;
(b) Encourage the development of different forms of  secondary education, including general and vocational  education, make them available and accessible to every child,  and take appropriate measures such as the introduction of  free education and offering financial assistance in case of  need;
(c) Make higher education accessible to all on the basis of  capacity by every appropriate means;
(d) Make educational and vocational information and  guidance available and accessible to all children;
(e) Take measures to encourage regular atendance at schools  and the reduction of drop-out rates.
2. States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to  ensure that school discipline is administered in a manner  consistent with the child's human dignity and in conformity  with the present Convention.
3. States Parties shall promote and encourage international  co-operation in matters relating to education, in particular  with a view to contributing to the elimination of ignorance  and illiteracy throughout the world and facilitating access  to scientific and technical knowledge and modern teaching  methods. In this regard, particular account shall be taken of  the needs of developing countries.
Article 29
1. States Parties agree that the education of the child  shall be directed to:
(a) The development of the child's personality, talents and  mental and physical abilities to their fullest potential;
(b) The development of respect for human rights and  fundamental freedoms, and for the principles enshrined in the  Charter of the United Nations;
(c) The development of respect for the child's parents, his  or her own cultural identity, language and values, for the  national values of the country in which the child is living,  the country from which he or she may originate, and for  civilizations different from his or her own;
(d) The preparation of the child for responsible life in a  free society, in the spirit of understanding, peace,  tolerance, equality of sexes, and friendship among all  peoples, ethnic, national and religious groups and persons of  indigenous origin;
(e) The development of respect for the natural  environment.
2. No part of the present article or article 28 shall be  construed so as to interfere with the liberty of individuals  and bodies to establish and direct educational institutions,  subject always to the observance of the principles set forth  in paragraph 1 of the present article and to the requirements  that the education given in such institutions shall con-form  to such minimum standards as may be laid down by the State.
Article 30
In those States in which ethnic, religious or linguistic  minorities or persons of indigenous origin exist, a child  be-longing to such a minority or who is indigenous shall not  be denied the right, in community with other members of his  or her group, to enjoy his or her own culture, to profess and  practise his or her own religion, or to use his or her own  language.
Article 31
1. States Parties recognize the right of the child to rest  and leisure, to engage in play and recreational activities  appropriate to the age of the child and to participate freely  in cultural life and the arts.
2. States Parties shall respect and promote the right of  the child to participate fully in cultural and artistic life  and shall encourage the provision of appropriate and equal  opportunities for cultural, artistic, recreational and  leisure activity.
Article 32
1. States Parties recognize the right of the child to be  protected from economic exploitation and from performing any  work that is likely to be hazardous or to interfere with the  child's education, or to be harmful to the child's health or  physical, mental, spiritual, moral or social development.
2. States Parties shall take legislative, administrative,  social and educational measures to ensure the implementation  of the present article. To this end, and having regard to the  relevant provisions of other international instruments,  States Parties shall in particular:
(a) Provide for a minimum age or minimum ages for admission  to employment;
(b) Provide for appropriate regulation of the hours and  conditions of employment;
(c) Provide for appropriate penalties or other sanctions to  ensure the effective enforcement of the present article.
Article 33
States Parties shall take all appropriate measures,  including legislative, administrative, social and educational  measures, to protect children from the illicit use of  narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances as defined in the  relevant international treaties, and to prevent the use of  children in the illicit production and trafficking of such  substances.
Article 34
States Parties undertake to protect the child from all  forms of sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. For these  purposes, States Parties shall in particular take all  appropriate national, bilateral and multilateral measures to  prevent:
(a) The inducement or coercion of a child to engage in any  unlawful sexual activity;
(b) The exploitative use of children in prostitution or  other unlawful sexual practices;
(c) The exploitative use of children in pornographic  performances and materials.
Article 35
States Parties shall take all appropriate national,  bilateral and multilateral measures to prevent the abduction  of, the sale of or traffic in children for any purpose or in  any form.
Article 36
States Parties shall protect the child against all other  forms of exploitation prejudicial to any aspects of the  child's welfare.
Article 37
States Parties shall ensure that:
(a) No child shall be subjected to torture or other cruel,  inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Neither capital  punishment nor life imprisonment without possibility of  release shall be imposed for offences committed by persons  below eighteen years of age;
(b) No child shall be deprived of his or her liberty  unlawfully or arbitrarily. The arrest, detention or  imprisonment of a child shall be in conformity with the law  and shall be used only as a measure of last resort and for  the shortest appropriate period of time;
(c) Every child deprived of liberty shall be treated with  humanity and respect for the inherent dignity of the human  person, and in a manner which takes into account the needs of  persons of his or her age. In particular, every child  deprived of liberty shall be separated from adults unless it  is considered in the child's best interest not to do so and  shall have the right to maintain contact with his or her  family through correspondence and visits, save in exceptional  circumstances;
(d) Every child deprived of his or her liberty shall have  the right to prompt access to legal and other appropriate  assistance, as well as the right to challenge the legality of  the deprivation of his or her liberty before a court or other  competent, independent and impartial authority, and to a  prompt decision on any such action.
Article 38
1. States Parties undertake to respect and to ensure  respect for rules of international humanitarian law  applicable to them in armed conflicts which are relevant to  the child.
2. States Parties shall take all feasible measures to  ensure that persons who have not attained the age of fifteen  years do not take a direct part in hostilities.
3. States Parties shall refrain from recruiting any person  who has not attained the age of fifteen years into their  armed forces. In recruiting among those persons who have  attained the age of fifteen years but who have not attained  the age of eighteen years, States Parties shall endeavour to  give priority to those who are oldest.
4. In accordance with their obligations under international  humanitarian law to protect the civilian population in armed  conflicts, States Parties shall take all feasible measures to  ensure protection and care of children who are affected by an  armed conflict.
Article 39
States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to  promote physical and psychological recovery and social  reintegration of a child victim of: any form of neglect,  exploitation, or abuse; torture or any other form of cruel,  inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment; or armed  conflicts. Such recovery and reintegration shall take place  in an environment which fosters the health, selfrespect and  dignity of the child.
Article 40
1. States Parties recognize the right of every child  alleged as, accused of, or recognized as having infringed the  penal law to be treated in a manner consistent with the  promotion of the child's sense of dignity and worth, which  reinforces the child's respect for the human rights and  fundamental freedoms of others and which takes into account  the child's age and the desirability of promoting the child's  reintegration and the child's assuming a constructive role in  society.
2. To this end, and having regard to the relevant  provisions of international instruments, States Parties  shall, in particular, ensure that:
(a) No child shall be alleged as, be accused of, or  recognized as having infringed the penal law by reason of  acts or omissions that were not prohibited by national or  international law at the time they were committed;
(b) Every child alleged as or accused of having infringed  the penal law has at least the following guarantees:
(i) To be presumed innocent until proven guilty according  to law;
(ii) To be informed promptly and directly of the charges  against him or her, and, if appropriate, through his or her  parents or legal guardians, and to have legal or other  appropriate assistance in the preparation and presentation of  his or her defence;
(iii) To have the matter determined without delay by a  competent, independent and impartial authority or judicial  body in a fair hearing according to law, in the presence of  legal or other appropriate assistance and, unless it is  considered not to be in the best interest of the child, in  particular, taking into account his or her age or situation,  his or her parents or legal guardians;
(iv) Not to be compelled to give testimony or to confess  guilt; to examine or have examined adverse witnesses and to  obtain the participation and examination of witnesses on his  or her behalf under conditions of equality;
(v) If considered to have infringed the penal law, to have  this decision and any measures imposed in consequence thereof  reviewed by a higher competent, independent and impartial  authority or judicial body according to law;
(vi) To have the free assistance of an interpreter if the  child cannot understand or speak the language used;
(vii) To have his or her privacy fully respected at all  stages of the proceedings.
3. States Parties shall seek to promote the establishment  of laws, procedures, authorities and institutions  specifically applicable to children alleged as, accused of,  or recognized as having infringed the penal law, and, in  particular:
(a) The establishment of a minimum age below which children  shall be presumed not to have the capacity to infringe the  penal law;
(b) Whenever appropriate and desirable, measures for  dealing with such children without resorting to judicial  proceedings, providing that human rights and legal safeguards  are fully respected.
4. A variety of dispositions, such as care, guidance and  supervision orders; counselling; probation; foster care;  education and vocational training programmes and other  alternatives to institutional care shall be available to  ensure that children are dealt with in a manner appropriate  to their well-being and proportionate both to their  circumstances and the offence.
Article 41
Nothing in the present Convention shall affect any  provisions which are more conducive to the realization of the  rights of the child and which may be contained in:
(a) The law of a State party; or
(b) International law in force for that State.
Part II
Article 42
States Parties undertake to make the principles and  provisions of the Convention widely known, by appropriate and  active means, to adults and children alike.
Article 43
1. For the purpose of examining the progress made by States  Parties in achieving the realization of the obligations  undertaken in the present Convention, there shall be  established a Committee on the Rights of the Child, which  shall carry out the functions hereinafter provided.
2. The Committee shall consist of eighteen experts of high  moral standing and recognized competence in the field covered  by this Convention.(3) The members of the Committee shall be  elected by States Parties from among their nationals and  shall serve in their personal capacity, consideration being  given to equitable geographical distribution, as well as to  the principal legal systems.
(3) The General Assembly, in its resolution 50/155 of 21  December 1995, approved the amendment to article 43,  paragraph 2, of the Convention on the Rights of the Child,  replacing the word "ten" with the word "eighteen". The  amendment entered into force on 18 November 2002 when it had  been accepted by a two-thirds majority of the States parties 
(128 out of 191).
3. The members of the Committee shall be elected by secret  ballot from a list of persons nominated by States Parties.  Each State Party may nominate one person from among its own  nationals
4. The initial election to the Committee shall be held no  later than six months after the date of the entry into force  of the present Convention and thereafter every second year.  At least four months before the date of each election, the  Secretary-General of the United Nations shall address a  letter to States Parties inviting them to submit their  nominations within two months. The Secretary-General shall  subsequently prepare a list in alphabetical order of all  persons thus nominated, indicating States Parties which have  nominated them, and shall submit it to the States Parties to  the present Convention.
5. The elections shall be held at meetings of States  Parties convened by the Secretary-General at United Nations  Headquarters. At those meetings, for which two thirds of  States Parties shall constitute a quorum, the persons elected  to the Committee shall be those who obtain the largest number  of votes and an absolute majority of the votes of the  representatives of States Parties present and voting
6. The members of the Committee shall be elected for a term  of four years. They shall be eligible for re-election if  renominated. The term of five of the members elected at the  first election shall expire at the end of two years;  immediately after the first election, the names of these five  members shall be chosen by lot by the Chairman of the  meeting.
7. If a member of the Committee dies or resigns or declares  that for any other cause he or she can no longer perform the  duties of the Committee, the State Party which nominated the  member shall appoint another expert from among its nationals  to serve for the remainder of the term, subject to the  approval of the Committee.
8. The Committee shall establish its own rules of  procedure.
9. The Committee shall elect its officers for a period of  two years.
10. The meetings of the Committee shall normally be held at  United Nations Headquarters or at any other convenient place  as determined by the Committee. The Committee shall normally  meet annually. The duration of the meetings of the Committee  shall be determined, and reviewed, if necessary, by a meeting  of the States Parties to the present Convention, subject to  the approval of the General Assembly.
11. The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall  provide the necessary staff and facilities for the effective  performance of the functions of the Committee under the  present Convention.
12. With the approval of the General Assembly, the members  of the Committee established under the present Convention  shall receive emoluments from United Nations resources as the  Assembly may decide.
Article 44
1. States Parties undertake to submit to the Committee,  through the Secretary-General of the United Nations, reports  on the measures they have adopted which give effect to the  rights recognized herein and on the progress made on the  enjoyment of those rights:
(a) Within two years of the entry into force of the  Convention for the State Party concerned;
(b) Thereafter every five years.
2. Reports made under the present article shall indicate  factors and difficulties, if any, affecting the degree of  fulfilment of the obligations under the present Convention.  Reports shall also contain sufficient information to provide  the Committee with a comprehensive understanding of the  implementation of the Convention in the country concerned.
3. A State Party which has submitted a comprehensive  initial report to the Committee need not, in its subsequent  reports submitted in accordance with paragraph 1 (b) of the  present article, repeat basic information previously  provided.
4. The Committee may request from States Parties further  information relevant to the implementation of the  Convention.
5. The Committee shall submit to the General Assembly,  through the Economic and Social Council, every two years,  reports on its activities.
6. States Parties shall make their reports widely available  to the public in their own countries.
Article 45
In order to foster the effective implementation of the  Convention and to encourage international co-operation in the  field covered by the Convention:
(a) The specialized agencies, the United Nations Children's  Fund, and other United Nations organs shall be entitled to be  represented at the consideration of the implementation of  such provisions of the present Convention as fall within the  scope of their mandate. The Committee may invite the  specialized agencies, the United Nations Children's Fund and  other competent bodies as it may consider appropriate to  provide expert advice on the implementation of the Convention  in areas falling within the scope of their respective  mandates. The Committee may invite the specialized agencies,  the United Nations Children's Fund, and other United Nations  organs to submit reports on the implementation of the  Convention in areas falling within the scope of their  activities;
(b) The Committee shall transmit, as it may consider  appropriate, to the specialized agencies, the United Nations  Children's Fund and other competent bodies, any reports from  States Parties that contain a request, or indicate a need,  for technical advice or assistance, along with the  Committee's observations and suggestions, if any, on these  requests or indications;
(c) The Committee may recommend to the General Assembly to  request the Secretary-General to undertake on its behalf  studies on specific issues relating to the rights of the  child;
(d) The Committee may make suggestions and general  recommendations based on information received pursuant to  articles 44 and 45 of the present Convention. Such  suggestions and general recommendations shall be trans-mitted  to any State Party concerned and reported to the General  Assembly, together with comments, if any, from States  Parties.
Part III
Article 46
The present Convention shall be open for signature by all  States.
Article 47
The present Convention is subject to ratification.  Instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the  Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Article 48
The present Convention shall remain open for accession by  any State. The instruments of accession shall be deposited  with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Article 49
1. The present Convention shall enter into force on the  thirtieth day following the date of deposit with the  Secrtary-General of the United Nations of the twentieth  instrument of ratifycation or accession.
2. For each State ratifying or acceding to the Convention  after the deposit of the twentieth instrument of ratification  or accession, the Convention shall enter into force on the  thirtieth day after the deposit by such State of its  instrument of ratification or accession.
Article 50
1. Any State Party may propose an amendment and file it  with the Secretary-General of the United Nations. The  Secretary-General shall thereupon communicate the proposed  amendment to States Parties, with a request that they  indicate whether they favour a conference of States Parties  for the purpose of considering and voting upon the proposals.  In the event that, within four months from the date of such  communication, at least one third of the States Parties  favour such a conference, the Secretary-General shall convene  the conference under the auspices of the United Nations. Any  amendment adopted by a majority of States Parties present and  voting at the conference shall be submitted to the General  Assembly for approval.
2. An amendment adopted in accordance with paragraph 1 of  the present article shall enter into force when it has been  approved by the General Assembly of the United Nations and  accepted by a twothirds majority of States Parties.
3. When an amendment enters into force, it shall be binding  on those States Parties which have accepted it, other States  Parties still being bound by the provisions of the present  Convention and any earlier amendments which they have  accepted.
Article 51
1. The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall  receive and circulate to all States the text of reservations  made by States at the time of ratification or accession.
2. A reservation incompatible with the object and purpose  of the present Convention shall not be permitted.
3. Reservations may be withdrawn at any time by  notification to that effect addressed to the  Secretary-General of the United Nations, who shall then  inform all States. Such notification shall take effect on the  date on which it is received by the Secretary-General.
Article 52
A State Party may denounce the present Convention by  written notification to the Secretary-General of the United  Nations. Denunciation becomes effective one year after the  date of receipt of the notification by the  Secretary-General.
Article 53
The Secretary-General of the United Nations is designated  as the depositary of the present Convention.
Article 54
The original of the present Convention, of which the  Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish texts  are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the  Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Convention relative aux droits de l'enfant
Préambule
Les Etats parties à la présente Convention,
Considérant que, conformément aux principes proclamés dans  la Charte des Nations Unies, la reconnaissance de la dignité  inhérente à tous les membres de la famille humaine ainsi que  l'égalité et le caractère inaliénable de leurs droits sont le  fondement de la liberté, de la justice et de la paix dans le  monde,
Ayant à l'esprit le fait que les peuples des Nations Unies  ont, dans la Charte, proclamé à nouveau leur foi dans les  droits fondamentaux de l'homme et dans la dignité et la  valeur de la personne humaine, et qu'ils ont résolu de  favoriser le progrès social et d'instaurer de meilleures  conditions de vie dans une liberté plus grande,
Reconnaissant que les Nations Unies, dans la Déclaration  universelle des droits de l'homme et dans les pactes  internationaux relatifs aux droits de l'homme, ont proclamé  et sont convenues que chacun peut se prévaloir de tous les  droits et de toutes les libertés qui y sont énoncés, sans  distinction aucune, notamment de race, de couleur, de sexe,  de langue, de religion, d'opinion politique ou de toute autre  opinion, d'origine nationale ou sociale, de fortune, de  naissance ou de toute autre situation,
Rappelant que, dans la Déclaration universelle des droits  de l'homme, les Nations Unies ont proclamé que l'enfance a  droit à une aide et à une assistance spéciales,
Convaincus que la famille, unité fondamentale de la société  et milieu naturel pour la croissance et le bien-être de tous  ses membres et en particulier des enfants, doit recevoir la  protection et l'assistance dont elle a besoin pour pouvoir  jouer pleinement son rôle dans la communauté,
Reconnaissant que l'enfant, pour l'épanouissement  harmonieux de sa personnalité, doit grandir dans le milieu  familial, dans un climat de bonheur, d'amour et de  compréhension,
Considérant qu'il importe de préparer pleinement l'enfant à  avoir une vie individuelle dans la société, et de l'élever  dans l'esprit des idéaux proclamés dans la Charte des Nations  Unies, et en particulier dans un esprit de paix, de dignité,  de tolérance, de liberté, d'égalité et de solidarité,
Ayant à l'esprit que la nécessité d'accorder une protection  spéciale à l'enfant a été énoncée dans la Déclaration de  Genève de 1924 sur les droits de l'enfant et dans la  Déclaration des droits de l'enfant adoptée par l'Assemblée  générale le 20 novembre 1959, et qu'elle a été reconnue dans  la Déclaration universelle des droits de l'homme, dans le  Pacte international relatif aux droits civils et politiques 
(en particulier aux articles 23 et 24), dans le Pacte  international relatif aux droits économiques, sociaux et  culturels (en particulier à l'article 10) et dans les statuts  et instruments pertinents des institutions spécialisées et  des organisations internationales qui se préoccupent du  bien-être de l'enfant,
Ayant à l'esprit que, comme indiqué dans la Déclaration des  droits de l'enfant, «l'enfant, en raison de son manque de  maturité physique et intellectuelle, a besoin d'une  protection spéciale et de soins spéciaux, notamment d'une  protection juridique appropriée, avant comme après la  naissance»,
Rappelant les dispositions de la Déclaration sur les  principes sociaux et juridiques applicables à la protection  et au bien-être des enfants, envisagés surtout sous l'angle  des pratiques en matière d'adoption et de placement familial  sur les plans national et international, de l'Ensemble de  règles minima des Nations Unies concernant l'administration  de la justice pour mineurs (Règles de Beijing), et de la  Déclaration sur la protection des femmes et des enfants en  période d'urgence et de conflit armé,
Reconnaissant qu'il y a dans tous les pays du monde des  enfants qui vivent dans des conditions particulièrement  difficiles, et qu'il est nécessaire d'accorder à ces enfants  une attention particulière,
Tenant dûment compte de l'importance des traditions et  valeurs culturelles de chaque peuple dans la protection et le  développement harmonieux de l'enfant,
Reconnaissant l'importance de la coopération internationale  pour l'amélioration des conditions de vie des enfants dans  tous les pays, et en particulier dans les pays en  développement,
Sont convenus de ce qui suit:
Première partie
Article premier
Au sens de la présente Convention, un enfant s'entend de  tout être humain âgé de moins de dix-huit ans, sauf si la  majorité est atteinte plus tôt en vertu de la législation qui  lui est applicable.
Article 2
1. Les Etats parties s'engagent à respecter les droits qui  sont énoncés dans la présente Convention et à les garantir à  tout enfant relevant de leur juridiction, sans distinction  aucune, indépendamment de toute considération de race, de  couleur, de sexe, de langue, de religion, d'opinion politique  ou autre de l'enfant ou de ses parents ou représentants  légaux, de leur origine nationale, ethnique ou sociale, de  leur situation de fortune, de leur incapacité, de leur  naissance ou de toute autre situation.
2. Les Etats parties prennent toutes les mesures  appropriées pour que l'enfant soit effectivement protégé  contre toutes formes de discrimination ou de sanction  motivées par la situation juridique, les activités, les  opinions déclarées ou les convictions de ses parents, de ses  représentants légaux ou des membres de sa famille.
Article 3
1. Dans toutes les décisions qui concernent les enfants,  qu'elles soient le fait des institutions publiques ou privées  de protection sociale, des tribunaux, des autorités  administratives ou des organes législatifs, l'intérêt  supérieur de l'enfant doit être une considération  primordiale.
 2. Les Etats parties s'engagent à assurer à l'enfant la  protection et les soins nécessaires à son bien-être, compte  tenu des droits et des devoirs de ses parents, de ses tuteurs  ou des autres personnes légalement responsables de lui, et  ils prennent à cette fin toutes les mesures législatives et  administratives appropriées.
3. Les Etats parties veillent à ce que le fonctionnement  des institutions, services et établissements qui ont la  charge des enfants et assurent leur protection soit conforme  aux normes fixées par les autorités compétentes,  particulièrement dans le domaine de la sécurité et de la  santé et en ce qui concerne le nombre et la compétence de  leur personnel ainsi que l'existence d'un contrôle  approprié.
Article 4
Les Etats parties s'engagent à prendre toutes les mesures  législatives, administratives et autres qui sont nécessaires  pour mettre en oeuvre les droits reconnus dans la présente  Convention. Dans le cas des droits économiques, sociaux et  culturels, ils prennent ces mesures dans toutes les limites  des ressources dont ils disposent et, s'il y a lieu, dans le  cadre de la coopération internationale.
Article 5
Les Etats parties respectent la responsabilité, le droit et  le devoir qu'ont les parents ou, le cas échéant, les membres  de la famille élargie ou de la communauté, comme prévu par la  coutume locale, les tuteurs ou autres personnes légalement  responsables de l'enfant, de donner à celui-ci, d'une manière  qui corresponde au développement de ses capacités,  l'orientation et les conseils appropriés à l'exercice des  droits que lui reconnaît la présente Convention.
Article 6
1. Les Etats parties reconnaissent que tout enfant a un  droit inhérent à la vie.
2. Les Etats parties assurent dans toute la mesure possible  la survie et le développement de l'enfant.
Article 7
1. L'enfant est enregistré aussitôt sa naissance et a dès  celle-ci le droit à un nom, le droit d'acquérir une  nationalité et, dans la mesure du possible, le droit de  connaître ses parents et d'être élevé par eux.
2. Les Etats parties veillent à mettre ces droits en oeuvre  conformément à leur législation nationale et aux obligations  que leur imposent les instruments internationaux applicables  en la matière, en particulier dans les cas où faute de cela  l'enfant se trouverait apatride.
Article 8
1. Les Etats parties s'engagent à respecter le droit de  l'enfant de préserver son identité, y compris sa nationalité,  son nom et ses relations familiales, tels qu'ils sont  reconnus par la loi, sans ingérence illégale.
2. Si un enfant est illégalement privé des éléments  constitutifs de son identité ou de certains d'entre eux, les  Etats parties doivent lui accorder une assistance et une  protection appropriées, pour que son identité soit rétablie  aussi rapidement que possible.
Article 9
1. Les Etats parties veillent à ce que l'enfant ne soit pas  séparé de ses parents contre leur gré, à moins que les  autorités compétentes ne décident, sous réserve de révision  judiciaire et conformément aux lois et procédures  applicables, que cette séparation est nécessaire dans  l'intérêt supérieur de l'enfant. Une décision en ce sens peut 
être nécessaire dans certains cas particuliers, par exemple  lorsque les parents maltraitent ou négligent l'enfant, ou  lorsqu'ils vivent séparément et qu'une décision doit être  prise au sujet du lieu de résidence de l'enfant.
2. Dans tous les cas prévus au paragraphe 1 du présent  article, toutes les parties intéressées doivent avoir la  possibilité de participer aux délibérations et de faire  connaître leurs vues.
3. Les Etats parties respectent le droit de l'enfant séparé  de ses deux parents ou de l'un d'eux d'entretenir  régulièrement des relations personnelles et des contacts  directs avec ses deux parents, sauf si cela est contraire à  l'intérêt supérieur de l'enfant.
4. Lorsque la séparation résulte de mesures prises par un  Etat partie, telles que la détention, l'emprisonnement,  l'exil, l'expulsion ou la mort (y compris la mort, quelle  qu'en soit la cause, survenue en cours de détention) des deux  parents ou de l'un d'eux, ou de l'enfant, l'Etat partie donne  sur demande aux parents, à l'enfant ou, s'il y a lieu, à un  autre membre de la famille les renseignements essentiels sur  le lieu où se trouvent le membre ou les membres de la  famille, à moins que la divulgation de ces renseignements ne  soit préjudiciable au bien-être de l'enfant. Les Etats  parties veillent en outre à ce que la présentation d'une  telle demande n'entraîne pas en ellemême de conséquences  fâcheuses pour la personne ou les personnes intéressées.
Article 10
1. Conformément à l'obligation incombant aux Etats parties  en vertu du paragraphe 1 de l'article 9, toute demande faite  par un enfant ou ses parents en vue d'entrer dans un Etat  partie ou de le quitter aux fins de réunification familiale  est considérée par les Etats parties dans un esprit positif,  avec humanité et diligence. Les Etats parties veillent en  outre à ce que la présentation d'une telle demande n'entraîne  pas de conséquences fâcheuses pour les auteurs de la demande  et les membres de leur famille.
2. Un enfant dont les parents résident dans des Etats  différents a le droit d'entretenir, sauf circonstances  exceptionnelles, des relations personnelles et des contacts  directs réguliers avec ses deux parents. A cette fin, et  conformément à l'obligation incombant aux Etats parties en  vertu du paragraphe 1 de l'article 9, les Etats parties  respectent le droit qu'ont l'enfant et ses parents de quitter  tout pays, y compris le leur, et de revenir dans leur propre  pays. Le droit de quitter tout pays ne peut faire l'objet que  des restrictions prescrites par la loi qui sont nécessaires  pour protéger la sécurité nationale, l'ordre public, la santé  ou la moralité publiques, ou les droits et libertés d'autrui,  et qui sont compatibles avec les autres droits reconnus dans  la présente Convention.
Article 11
1. Etats parties prennent des mesures pour lutter contre  les déplacements et les non-retours illicites d'enfants à  l'étranger.
2. A cette fin, les Etats paties favorisent la conclusion  d'accords bilatéraux ou multilatéraux ou l'adhésion aux  accords existants.
Article 12
1. Les Etats parties garantissent à l'enfant qui est  capable de discernement le droit d'exprimer librement son  opinion sur toute question l'intéressant, les opinions de  l'enfant étant dûment prises en considération eu égard à son 
âge et à son degré de maturité.
2. A cette fin, on donnera notamment à l'enfant la  possibilité d'être entendu dans toute procédure judiciaire ou  administrative l'intéressant, soit directement, soit par  l'intermédiaire d'un représentant ou d'une organisation  approprié, de façon compatible avec les règles de procédure  de la législation nationale.
Article 13
1. L'enfant a droit à la liberté d'expression. Ce droit  comprend la liberté de rechercher, de recevoir et de répandre  des informations et des idées de toute espèce, sans  considération de frontières, sous une forme orale, écrite,  imprimée ou artistique, ou par tout autre moyen du choix de  l'enfant.
2. L'exercice de ce droit ne peut faire l'objet que des  seules restrictions qui sont prescrites par la loi et qui  sont nécessaires:
a) Au respect des droits ou de la réputation d'autrui; ou
b) A la sauvegarde de la sécurité nationale, de l'ordre  public, de la santé ou de la moralité publiques.
Article 14
1. Les Etats parties respectent le droit de l'enfant à la  liberté de pensée, de conscience et de religion.
2. Les Etats parties respectent le droit et le devoir des  parents ou, le cas échéant, des représentants légaux de  l'enfant, de guider celui-ci dans l'exercice du droit  susmentionné d'une manière qui corresponde au développement  de ses capacités.
3. La liberté de manifester sa religion ou ses convictions  ne peut être soumise qu'aux seules restrictions qui sont  prescrites par la loi et qui sont nécessaires pour préserver  la sûreté publique, l'ordre public, la santé et la moralité  publiques, ou les libertés et droits fondamentaux d'autrui.
Article 15
1. Les Etats parties reconnaissent les droits de l'enfant à  la liberté d'association et à la liberté de réunion  pacifique.
2. L'exercice de ces droits ne peut faire l'objet que des  seules restrictions qui sont prescrites par la loi et qui  sont nécessaires dans une société démocratique, dans  l'intérêt de la sécurité nationale, de la sûreté publique ou  de l'ordre public, ou pour protéger la santé ou la moralité  publiques, ou les droits et libertés d'autrui.
Article 16
1. Nul enfant ne fera l'objet d'immixtions arbitraires ou  illégales dans sa vie privée, sa famille, son domicile ou sa  correspondance, ni d'atteintes illégales à son honneur et à  sa réputation.
2. L'enfant a droit à la protection de la loi contre de  telles immixtions ou de telles atteintes.
Article 17
Les Etats parties reconnaissent l'importance de la fonction  remplie par les médias et veillent à ce que l'enfant ait  accès à une information et à des matériels provenant de  sources nationales et internationales diverses, notamment  ceux qui visent à promouvoir son bien-être social, spirituel  et moral ainsi que sa santé physique et mentale. A cette fin,  les Etats parties:
a) Encouragent les médias à diffuser une information et des  matériels qui présentent une utilité sociale et culturelle  pour l'enfant et répondent à l'esprit de l'article 29;
b) Encouragent la coopération internationale en vue de  produire, d'échanger et de diffuser une information et des  matériels de ce type provenant de différentes sources  culturelles, nationales et internationales;
c) Encouragent la production et la diffusion de livres pour  enfants;
d) Encouragent les médias à tenir particulièrement compte  des besoins linguistiques des enfants autochtones ou  appartenant à un groupe minoritaire;
e) Favorisent l'élaboration de principes directeurs  appropriés destinés à protéger l'enfant contre l'information  et les matériels qui nuisent à son bien-être, compte tenu des  dispositions des articles 13 et 18.
Article 18
1. Les Etats parties s'emploient de leur mieux à assurer la  reconnaissance du principe selon lequel les deux parents ont  une responsabilité commune pour ce qui est d'élever l'enfant  et d'assurer son développement. La responsabilité d'élever  l'enfant et d'assurer son développement incombe au premier  chef aux parents ou, le cas échéant, à ses représentants  légaux. Ceux-ci doivent être guidés avant tout par l'intérêt  supérieur de l'enfant
2. Pour garantir et promouvoir les droits énoncés dans la  présente Convention, les Etats parties accordent l'aide  appropriée aux parents et aux représentants légaux de  l'enfant dans l'exercice de la responsabilité qui leur  incombe d'élever l'enfant et assurent la mise en place  d'institutions, d'établissements et de services chargés de  veiller au bien-être des enfants.
3. Les Etats parties prennent toutes les mesures  appropriées pour assurer aux enfants dont les parents  travaillent le droit de bénéficier des services et 
établissements de garde d'enfants pour lesquels ils  remplissent les conditions requises.
Article 19
1. Les Etats parties prennent toutes les mesures  législatives, administratives, sociales et éducatives  appropriées pour protéger l'enfant contre toute forme de  violence, d'atteinte ou de brutalités physiques ou mentales,  d'abandon ou de négligence, de mauvais traitements ou  d'exploitation, y compris la violence sexuelle, pendant qu'il  est sous la garde de ses parents ou de l'un d'eux, de son ou  ses représentants légaux ou de toute autre per-sonne à qui il  est confié.
2. Ces mesures de protection doivent comprendre, selon  qu'il conviendra, des procédures efficaces pour  l'établissement de programmes sociaux visant à fournir  l'appui nécessaire à l'enfant et à ceux à qui il est confié,  ainsi que pour d'autres formes de prévention, et aux fins  d'identification, de rapport, de renvoi, d'enquête, de  traitement et de suivi pour les cas de mauvais traitements de  l'enfant décrits ci-dessus, et comprendre également, selon  qu'il conviendra, des procédures d'intervention judiciaire.
Article 20
1. Tout enfant qui est temporairement ou définitivement  privé de son milieu familial, ou qui dans son propre intérêt  ne peut être laissé dans ce milieu, a droit à une protection  et une aide spéciales de l'Etat.
2. Les Etats parties prévoient pour cet enfant une  protection de remplacement conforme à leur législation  nationale.
3. Cette protection de remplacement peut notamment avoir la  forme du placement dans une famille, de la kafalah de droit  islamique, de l'adoption ou, en cas de nécessité, du  placement dans un établissement pour enfants approprié. Dans  le choix entre ces solutions, il est dûment tenu compte de la  nécessité d'une certaine continuité dans l'éducation de  l'enfant, ainsi que de son origine ethnique, religieuse,  culturelle et linguistique.
Article 21
Les Etats parties qui admettent et/ou autorisent l'adoption  s'assurent que l'intérêt supérieur de l'enfant est la  considération primordiale en la matière, et:
a) Veillent à ce que l'adoption d'un enfant ne soit  autorisée que par les autorités compétentes, qui vérifient,  conformément à la loi et aux procédures applicables et sur la  base de tous les renseignements fiables relatifs au cas  considéré, que l'adoption peut avoir lieu eu égard à la  situation de l'enfant par rapport à ses père et mère, parents  et représentants légaux et que, le cas échéant, les personnes  intéressées ont donné leur consentement à l'adoption en  connaissance de cause, après s'être entourées des avis  nécessaires;
b) Reconnaissent que l'adoption à l'étranger peut être  envisagée comme un autre moyen d'assurer les soins  nécessaires à l'enfant, si celui-ci ne peut, dans son pays  d'origine, être placé dans une famille nourricière ou  adoptive ou être convenablement élevé;
c) Veillent, en cas d'adoption à l'étranger, à ce que  l'enfant ait le bénéfice de garanties et de normes équivalant 
à celles existant en cas d'adoption nationale;
d) Prennent toutes les mesures appropriées pour veiller à  ce que, en cas d'adoption à l'étranger, le placement de  l'enfant ne se traduise pas par un profit matériel indu pour  les personnes qui en sont responsables;
e) Poursuivent les objectifs du présent article en  concluant des arrangements ou des accords bilatéraux ou  multilatéraux, selon les cas, et s'efforcent dans ce cadre de  veiller à ce que les placements d'enfants à l'étranger soient  effectués par des autorités ou des organes compétents.
Article 22
1. Les Etats parties prennent les mesures appropriées pour  qu'un enfant qui cherche à obtenir le statut de réfugié ou  qui est considéré comme réfugié en vertu des règles et  procédures du droit international ou national applicable,  qu'il soit seul ou accompagné de ses père et mère ou de toute  autre personne, bénéficie de la protection et de l'assistance  humanitaire voulues pour lui permettre de jouir des droits  que lui reconnaissent la présente Convention et les autres  instruments internationaux relatifs aux droits de l'homme ou  de caractère humanitaire auxquels lesdits Etats sont  parties.
2. A cette fin, les Etats parties collaborent, selon qu'ils  le jugent nécessaire, à tous les efforts faits par  l'Organisation des Nations Unies et les autres organisations  intergouvernementales ou non gouvernementales compétentes  collaborant avec l'Organisation des Nations Unies pour  protéger et aider les enfants qui se trouvent en pareille  situation et pour rechercher les père et mère ou autres  membres de la famille de tout enfant réfugié en vue d'obtenir  les renseignements nécessaires pour le réunir à sa famille.  Lorsque ni le père, ni la mère, ni aucun autre membre de la  famille ne peut être retrouvé, l'enfant se voit accorder,  selon les principes énoncés dans la présente Convention, la  même protection que tout autre enfant définitivement ou  temporairement privé de son milieu familial pour quelque  raison que ce soit.
Article 23
1. Les Etats parties reconnaissent que les enfants  mentalement ou physiquement handicapés doivent mener une vie  pleine et décente, dans des conditions qui garantissent leur  dignité, favorisent leur autonomie et facilitent leur  participation active à la vie de la collectivité.
2. Les Etats parties reconnaissent le droit à des enfants  handicapés de bénéficier de soins spéciaux et encouragent et  assurent, dans la mesure des ressources disponibles,  l'octroi, sur demande, aux enfants handicapés remplissant les  conditions requises et à ceux qui en ont la charge, d'une  aide adaptée à l'état de l'enfant et à la situation de ses  parents ou de ceux à qui il est confié.
3. Eu égard aux besoins particuliers des enfants  handicapés, l'aide fournie conformément au paragraphe 2 du  présent article est gratuite chaque fois qu'il est possible,  compte tenu des ressources financières de leurs parents ou de  ceux à qui l'enfant est confié, et elle est conçue de telle  sorte que les enfants handicapés aient effectivement accès à  l'éducation, à la formation, aux soins de santé, à la  rééducation, à la préparation à l'emploi et aux activités  récréatives, et bénéficient de ces services de façon propre à  assurer une intégration sociale aussi complète que possible  et leur épanouissement personnel, y compris dans le domaine  culturel et spirituel.
4. Dans un esprit de coopération internationale, les Etats  parties favorisent l'échange d'informations pertinentes dans  le domaine des soins de santé préventifs et du traitement  médical, psychologique et fonctionnel des enfants handicapés,  y compris par la diffusion d'informations concernant les  méthodes de rééducation et les services de formation  professionnelle, ainsi que l'accès à ces données, en vue de  permettre aux Etats parties d'améliorer leurs capacités et  leurs compétences et d'élargir leur expérience dans ces  domaines. A cet égard, il est tenu particulièrement compte  des besoins des pays en développement.
Article 24
1. Les Etats parties reconnaissent le droit de l'enfant de  jouir du meilleur état de santé possible et de bénéficier de  services médicaux et de rééducation. Ils s'efforcent de  garantir qu'aucun enfant ne soit privé du droit d'avoir accès 
à ces services.
2. Les Etats parties s'efforcent d'assurer la réalisation  intégrale du droit susmentionné et, en particulier, prennent  les mesures appropriées pour:
a) Réduire la mortalité parmi les nourrissons et les  enfants;
b) Assurer à tous les enfants l'assistance médicale et les  soins de santé nécessaires, l'accent étant mis sur le  développement des soins de santé primaires;
c) Lutter contre la maladie et la malnutrtion, y compris  dans le cadre de soins de santé primaires, grâce notamment à  l'utilisation de techniques aisément disponibles et à la  fourniture d'aliments nutritifs et d'eau potable, compte tenu  des dangers et des risques de pollution du milieu naturel;
d) Assurer aux mères des soins prénatals et postnatals  appropriés;
e) Faire en sorte que tous les groupes de la société, en  particulier les parents et les enfants, reçoivent une  information sur la santé et la nutrition de l'enfant, les  avantages de l'allaitement au sein, l'hygiène et la salubrité  de l'environnement et la prévention des accidents, et  bénéficient d'une aide leur permettant de mettre à profit  cette information;
f) Développer les soins de santé préventifs, les conseils  aux parents et l'éducation et les services en matière de  planification familiale.
3. Les Etats parties prennent toutes les mesures efficaces  appropriées en vue d'abolir les pratiques traditionnelles  préjudiciables à la santé des enfants.
4. Les Etats parties s'engagent à favoriser et à encourager  la coopération internationale en vue d'assurer  progressivement la pleine réalisation du droit reconnu dans  le présent article. A cet égard, il est tenu particulièrement  compte des besoins des pays en développement.
Article 25
Les Etats parties reconnaissent à l'enfant qui a été placé  par les autorités compétentes pour recevoir des soins, une  protection ou un traitement physique ou mental, le droit à un  examen périodique dudit traitement et de toute autre  circonstance relative à son placement.
Article 26
1. Les Etats parties reconnaissent à tout enfant le droit  de bénéficier de la sécurité sociale, y compris les  assurances sociales, et prennent les mesures nécessaires pour  assurer la pleine réalisation de ce droit en conformité avec  leur législation nationale.
2. Les prestations doivent, lorsqu'il y a lieu, être  accordées compte tenu des ressources et de la situation de  l'enfant et des personnes responsables de son entretien,  ainsi que de toute autre considération applicable à la  demande de prestation faite par l'enfant ou en son nom.
Article 27
1. Les Etats parties reconnaissent le droit de tout enfant 
à un niveau de vie suffisant pour permettre son développement  physique, mental, spirituel, moral et social.
2. C'est aux parents ou autres personnes ayant la charge de  l'enfant qu'incombe au premier chef la responsabilité  d'assurer, dans les limites de leurs possibilités et de leurs  moyens financiers, les conditions de vie nécessaires au  développement de l'enfant.
3. Les Etats parties adoptent les mesures appropriées,  compte tenu des conditions nationales et dans la mesure de  leurs moyens, pour aider les parents et autres personnes  ayant la charge de l'enfant à mettre en oeuvre ce droit et  offrent, en cas de besoin, une assistance matérielle et des  programmes d'appui, notamment en ce qui concerne  l'alimentation, le vêtement et le logement.
4. Les Etats parties prennent toutes les mesures  appropriées en vue d'assurer le recouvrement de la pension  alimentaire de l'enfant auprès de ses parents ou des autres  personnes ayant une responsabilité financière à son égard,  que ce soit sur leur territoire ou à l'étranger. En  particulier, pour tenir compte des cas où la personne qui a  une responsabilité financière à l'égard de l'enfant vit dans  un Etat autre que celui de l'enfant, les Etats parties  favorisent l'adhésion à des accords internationaux ou la  conclusion de tels accords ainsi que l'adoption de tous  autres arrangements appropriés.
Article 28
1. Les Etats parties reconnaissent le droit de l'enfant à  l'éducation, et en particulier, en vue d'assurer l'exercice  de ce droit progressivement et sur la base de l'égalité des  chances:
a) Ils rendent l'enseignement primaire obligatoire et  gratuit pour tous;
b) Ils encouragent l'organisation de différentes formes  d'enseignement secondaire, tant général que professionnel,  les rendent ouvertes et accessibles à tout enfant, et  prennent des mesures appropriées, telles que l'instauration  de la gratuité de l'enseignement et l'offre d'une aide  financière en cas de besoin;
c) Ils assurent à tous l'accès à l'enseignement supérieur,  en fonction des capacités de chacun, par tous les moyens  appropriés;
d) Ils rendent ouvertes et accessibles à tout enfant  l'information et l'orientation scolaires et  professionnelles;
 e) Ils prennent des mesures pour encourager la régularité  de la fréquentation scolaire et la réduction des taux  d'abandon scolaire.
2. Les Etats parties prennent toutes les mesures  appropriées pour veiller à ce que la discipline scolaire soit  appliquée d'une manière compatible avec la dignité de  l'enfant en tant qu'être humain et conformément à la présente  Convention.
3. Les Etats parties favorisent et encouragent la  coopération internationale dans le domaine de l'éducation, en  vue notamment de contribuer à éliminer l'ignorance et  l'analphabétisme dans le monde et de faciliter l'accès aux  connaissances scientifiques et techniques et aux méthodes  d'enseignement modernes. A cet égard, il est tenu  particulièrement compte des besoins des pays en  développement.
Article 29
1. Les Etats parties conviennent que l'éducation de  l'enfant doit viser à:
a) Favoriser l'épanouissement de la personnalité de  l'enfant et le développement de ses dons et de ses aptitudes  mentales et physiques, dans toute la mesure de leurs  potentialités;
b) Inculquer à l'enfant le respect des droits de l'homme et  des libertés fondamentales, et des principes consacrés dans  la Charte des Nations Unies;
c) Inculquer à l'enfant le respect de ses parents, de son  identité, de sa langue et de ses valeurs culturelles, ainsi  que le respect des valeurs nationales du pays dans lequel il  vit, du pays duquel il peut être originaire et des  civilisations différentes de la sienne;
d) Préparer l'enfant à assumer les responsabilités de la  vie dans une société libre, dans un esprit de compréhension,  de paix, de tolérance, d'égalité entre les sexes et d'amitié  entre tous les peuples et groupes ethniques, nationaux et  religieux, et avec les personnes d'origine autochtone;
e) Inculquer à l'enfant le respect du milieu naturel.
2. Aucune disposition du présent article ou de l'article 28  ne sera interprétée d'une manière qui porte atteinte à la  liberté des personnes physiques ou morales de créer et de  diriger des établissements d'enseignement, à condition que  les principes énoncés au paragraphe 1 du présent article  soient respectés et que l'éducation dispensée dans ces 
établissements soit conforme aux normes minimales que l'Etat  aura prescrites.
Article 30
Dans les Etats où il existe des minorités ethniques,  religieuses ou linguistiques ou des personnes d'origine  autochtone, un enfant autochtone ou appartenant à une de ces  minorités ne peut être privé du droit d'avoir sa propre vie  culturelle, de professer et de pratiquer sa propre religion  ou d'employer sa propre langue en commun avec les autres  membres de son groupe.
Article 31
1. Les Etats parties reconnaissent à l'enfant le droit au  repos et aux loisirs, de se livrer au jeu et à des activités  récréatives propres à son âge et de participer librement à la  vie culturelle et artistique.
2. Les Etats parties respectent et favorisent le droit de  l'enfant de participer pleinement à la vie culturelle et  artistique et encouragent l'organisation à son intention de  moyens appropriés de loisirs et d'activités récréatives,  artistiques et culturelles, dans des conditions d'égalité.
Article 32
1. Les Etats parties reconnaissent le droit de l'enfant  d'être protégé contre l'exploitation économique et de n'être  astreint à aucun travail comportant des risques ou  susceptible de compromettre son éducation ou de nuire à sa  santé ou à son développement physique, mental, spirituel,  moral ou social.
2. Les Etats parties prennent des mesures législatives,  administratives, sociales et éducatives pour assurer  l'application du présent article. A cette fin, et compte tenu  des dispositions pertinentes des autres instruments  internationaux, les Etats parties, en particulier:
a) Fixent un âge minimum ou des âges minimums d'admission à  l'emploi;
b) Prévoient une règlementation appropriée des horaires de  travail et des conditions d'emploi;
c) Prévoient des peines ou autres sanctions appropriées  pour assurer l'application effective du présent article.
Article 33
Les Etats parties prennent toutes les mesures appropriées,  y compris des mesures législatives, administratives, sociales  et éducatives, pour protéger les enfants contre l'usage  illicite de stupéfiants et de substances psychotropes, tels  que les définissent les conventions internationales  pertinentes, et pour empêcher que des enfants ne soient  utilisés pour la production et le trafic illicites de ces  substances.
Article 34
Les Etats parties s'engagent à protéger l'enfant contre  toutes les formes d'exploitation sexuelle et de violence  sexuelle. A cette fin, les Etats prennent en particulier  toutes les mesures appropriées sur les plans national,  bilatéral et multilatéral pour empêcher:
a) Que des enfants ne soient incités ou contraints à se  livrer à une activité sexuelle illégale;
b) Que des enfants ne soient exploités à des fins de  prostitution ou autres pratiques sexuelles illégales;
c) Que des enfants ne soient exploités aux fins de la  production de spectacles ou de matériel de caractère  pornographique.
Article 35
Les Etats parties prennent toutes les mesures appropriées  sur les plans national, bilatéral et multilatéral pour  empêcher l'enlèvement, la vente ou la traite d'enfants à  quelque fin que ce soit et sous quelque forme que ce soit.
Article 36
Les Etats parties protègent l'enfant contre toutes autres  formes d'exploitation préjudiciables à tout aspect de son  bien-être.
Article 37
Les Etats parties veillent à ce que:
a) Nul enfant ne soit soumis à la torture ni à des peines  ou traitements cruels, inhumains ou dégradants. Ni la peine  capitale ni l'emprisonnement à vie sans possibilité de  libération ne doivent être prononcés pour les infractions  commises par des personnes âgées de moins de dix-huit ans;
b) Nul enfant ne soit privé de liberté de façon illégale ou  arbitraire. L'arrestation, la détention ou l'emprisonnement  d'un enfant doit être en conformité avec la loi, n'être  qu'une mesure de dernier ressort, et être d'une durée aussi  brève que possible;
c) Tout enfant privé de liberté soit traité avec humanité  et avec le respect dû à la dignité de la personne humaine, et  d'une manière tenant compte des besoins des personnes de son 
âge. En particulier, tout enfant privé de liberté sera séparé  des adultes, à moins que l'on estime préférable de ne pas le  faire dans l'intérêt supérieur de l'enfant, et il a le droit  de rester en contact avec sa famille par la correspondance et  par les visites, sauf circonstances exceptionnelles;
d) Les enfants privés de liberté aient le droit d'avoir  rapidement accès à l'assistance juridique ou à toute autre  assistance appropriée, ainsi que le droit de contester la  légalité de leur privation de liberté devant un tribunal ou  une autre autorité compétente, indépendante et impartiale, et 
à ce qu'une décision rapide soit prise en la matière.
Article 38
1. Les Etats parties s'engagent à respecter et à faire  respecter les règles du droit humanitaire international qui  leur sont applicables en cas de conflit armé et dont la  protection s'étend aux enfants.
2. Les Etats parties prennent toutes les mesures possibles  dans la pratique pour veiller à ce que les personnes n'ayant  pas atteint l'âge de quinze ans ne participent pas  directement aux hostilités.
3. Les Etats parties s'abstiennent d'enrôler dans leurs  forces armées toute personne n'ayant pas atteint l'âge de  quinze ans. Lorsqu'ils incorporent des personnes de plus de  quinze ans mais de moins de dix-huit ans, les Etats parties  s'efforcent d'enrôler en priorité les plus âgées.
4. Conformément à l'obligation qui leur incombe en vertu du  droit humanitaire international de protéger la population  civile en cas de conflit armé, les Etats parties prennent  toutes les mesures possibles dans la pratique pour que les  enfants qui sont touchés par un conflit armé bénéficient  d'une protection et de soins.
Article 39
Les Etats parties prennent toutes les mesures appropriées  pour faciliter la réadaptation physique et psychologique et  la réinsertion sociale de tout enfant victime de toute forme  de négligence, d'exploitation ou de sévices, de torture ou de  toute autre forme de peines ou traitements cruels, inhumains  ou dégradants, ou de conflit armé. Cette réadaptation et  cette réinsertion se déroulent dans des conditions qui  favorisent la santé, le respect de soi et la dignité de  l'enfant.
Article 40
1. Etats parties reconnaissent à tout enfant suspecté,  accusé ou convaincu d'infraction à la loi pénale le droit à  un traitement qui soit de nature à favoriser son sens de la  dignité et de la valeur personnelle, qui renforce son respect  pour les droits de l'homme et les libertés fondamentales  d'autrui, et qui tienne compte de son âge ainsi que de la  nécessité de faciliter sa réintégration dans la société et de  lui faire assumer un rôle constructif au sein de celle-ci.
2. A cette fin, et compte tenu des dispositions pertinentes  des instruments internationaux, les Etats parties veillent en  particulier:
a) A ce qu'aucun enfant ne soit suspecté, accusé ou  convaincu d'infraction à la loi pénale en raison d'actions ou  d'omissions qui n'étaient pas interdites par le droit  national ou international au moment où elles ont été  commises;
b) A ce que tout enfant suspecté ou accusé d'infraction à  la loi pénale ait au moins le droit aux garanties  suivantes:
i) Etre présumé innocent jusqu'à ce que sa  culpabilité ait été légalement établie;
ii) Etre informé dans le plus court délai et directement  des accusations portées contre lui, ou, le cas échéant, par  l'intermédiaire de ses parents ou représentants légaux, et  bénéficier d'une assistance juridique ou de toute autre  assistance appropriée pour la préparation et la présentation  de sa défense;
iii) Que sa cause soit entendue sans retard par une  autorité ou une instance judiciaire compétentes,  indépendantes et impartiales, selon une procédure équitable  aux termes de la loi, en présence de son conseil juridique ou  autre et, à moins que cela ne soit jugé contraire à l'intérêt  supérieur de l'enfant en raison notamment de son âge ou de sa  situation, en présence de ses parents ou représentants  légaux;
iv) Ne pas être contraint de témoigner ou de s'avouer  coupable; interroger ou faire interroger les témoins à  charge, et obtenir la comparution et l'interrogatoire des  témoins à décharge dans des conditions d'égalité;
v) S'il est reconnu avoir enfreint la loi pénale, faire  appel de cette décision et de toute mesure arrêtée en  conséquence devant une autorité ou une instance judiciaire  supérieure compétentes, indépendantes et impartiales,  conformément à la loi;
vi) Se faire assister gratuitement d'un interprète s'il ne  comprend ou ne parle pas la langue utilisée;
vii) Que sa vie privée soit pleinement respectée à tous les  stades de la procédure.
3. Les Etats parties s'efforcent de promouvoir l'adoption  de lois, de procédures, la mise en place d'autorités et  d'institutions spécialement conçues pour les enfants  suspectés, accusés ou convaincus d'infraction à la loi  pénale, et en particulier:
a) D'établir un âge minimum au-dessous duquel les enfants  seront présumés n'avoir pas la capacité d'enfreindre la loi  pénale;
b) De prendre des mesures, chaque fois que cela est  possible et souhaitable, pour traiter ces enfants sans  recourir à la procédure judiciaire, étant cependant entendu  que les droits de l'homme et les garanties légales doivent 
être pleinement respectés.
4. Toute une gamme de dispositions, relatives notamment aux  soins, à l'orientation et à la supervision, aux conseils, à  la probation, au placement familial, aux programmes  d'éducation générale et professionnelle et aux solutions  autres qu'institutionnelles seront prévues en vue d'assurer  aux enfants un traitement conforme à leur bien-être et  proportionné à leur situation et à l'infraction.
Article 41
Aucune des dispositions de la présente Convention ne porte  atteinte aux dispositions plus propices à la réalisation des  droits de l'enfant qui peuvent figurer:
a) Dans la législation d'un Etat partie; ou
b) Dans le droit international en vigueur pour cet Etat.
Deuxième partie
Article 42
Les Etats parties s'engagent à faire largement connaître  les principes et les dispositions de la présente Convention,  par des moyens actifs et appropriés, aux adultes comme aux  enfants.
Article 43
1. Aux fins d'examiner les progrès accomplis par les Etats  parties dans l'exécution des obligations contractées par eux  en vertu de la présente Convention, il est institué un Comité  des droits de l'enfant qui s'acquitte des fonctions définies  ci-après.
2. Le Comité se compose de dix-huit experts de haute  moralité et possédant une compétence reconnue dans le domaine  visé par la présente Convention.(3) Ses membres sont élus par  les Etats parties parmi leurs ressortissants et siègent à  titre personnel, compte tenu de la nécessité d'assurer une  répartition géographique équitable et eu égard aux principaux  systèmes juridiques.
(3) L'Assemblée générale, dans sa résolution 50/155 du 21  décembre 1995, a approuvé l'amendement qui consiste à  remplacer, au paragraphe 2 de l'article 43 de la Convention  relative aux droits de l'enfant, le mot "dix" par le mot 
"dix-huit". L'amendement est entré en vigueur le 18 novembre 
2002 après son acceptation par une majorité des deux tiers  des États parties (128 sur 191).
3. Les membres du Comité sont élus au scrutin secret sur  une liste de personnes désignées par les Etats parties.  Chaque Etat partie peut désigner un candidat parmi ses  ressortissants.
4. La première élection aura lieu dans les six mois suivant  la date d'entrée en vigueur de la présente Convention. Les 
élections auront lieu ensuite tous les deux ans. Quatre  mois au moins avant la date de chaque élection, le  Secrétaire général de l'Organisation des Nations Unies  invitera par écrit les Etats parties à proposer leurs  candidats dans un délai de deux mois. Le Secrétaire général  dressera ensuite la liste alphabétique des candidats ainsi  désignés, en indiquant les Etats parties qui les ont  désignés, et la communiquera aux Etats parties à la présente  Convention.
5. Les élections ont lieu lors des réunions des Etats  parties, convoquées par le Secrétaire général au Siège de  l'Organisation des Nations Unies. A ces réunions, pour  lesquelles le quorum est constitué par les deux tiers des  Etats parties, les candidats élus au Comité sont ceux qui  obtiennent le plus grand nombre de voix et la majorité  absolue des voix des représentants des Etats parties présents  et votants.
6. Les membres du Comité sont élus pour quatre ans. Ils  sont rééligibles si leur candidature est présentée à nouveau.  Le mandat de cinq des membres élus lors de la première 
élection prend fin au bout de deux ans. Les noms de ces cinq  membres seront tirés au sort par le président de la réunion  immédiatement après la première élection.
7. En cas de décès ou de démission d'un membre du Comité,  ou si, pour toute autre raison, un membre déclare ne plus  pouvoir exercer ses fonctions au sein du Comité, l'Etat  partie qui avait présenté sa candidature nomme un autre  expert parmi ses ressortissants pour pourvoir le poste ainsi  vacant jusqu'à l'expiration du mandat correspondant, sous  réserve de l'approbation du Comité.
8. Le Comité adopte son règlement intérieur.
9. Le Comité élit son bureau pour une période de deux  ans.
10. Les réunions du Comité se tiennent normalement au  Siège de l'Organisation des Nations Unies, ou en tout autre  lieu approprié déterminé par le Comité. Le Comité se réunit  normalement chaque année. La durée de ses sessions est  déterminée et modifiée, si nécessaire, par une réunion des  Etats parties à la présente Convention, sous réserve de  l'approbation de l'Assemblée générale.
11. Le Secrétaire général de l'Organisation des Nations  Unies met à la disposition du Comité le personnel et les  installations qui lui sont nécessaires pour s'acquitter  efficacement des fonctions qui lui sont confiées en vertu de  la présente Convention.
12. Les membres du Comité institué en vertu de la présente  Convention reçoivent, avec l'approbation de l'Assemblée  générale, des émoluments prélevés sur les ressources de  l'Organisation des Nations Unies dans les conditions et selon  les modalités fixées par l'Assemblée générale.
Article 44
1. Les Etats parties s'engagent à soumettre au Comité, par  l'entremise du Secrétaire général de l'Organisation des  Nations Unies, des rapports sur les mesures qu'ils auront  adoptées pour donner effet aux droits reconnus dans la  présente Convention et sur les progrès réalisés dans la  jouissance de ces droits:
a) Dans les deux ans à compter de la date de l'entrée en  vigueur de la présente Convention pour les Etats parties  intéressés;
b) Par la suite, tous les cinq ans.
2. Les rapports établis en application du présent article  doivent, le cas échéant, indiquer les facteurs et les  difficultés empêchant les Etats parties de s'acquitter  pleinement des obligations prévues dans la présente  Convention. Ils doivent également contenir des renseignements  suffisants pour donner au Comité une idée précise de  l'application de la Convention dans le pays considéré.
3. Les Etats parties ayant présenté au Comité un rapport  initial complet n'ont pas, dans les rapports qu'ils lui  présentent ensuite conformément à l'alinéa (b) du paragraphe 
1 du présent article, à répéter les renseignements de base  antérieurement communiqués.
4. Le Comité peut demander aux Etats parties tous  renseignements complémentaires relatifs à l'application de la  Convention.
5. Le Comité soumet tous les deux ans à l'Assemblée  générale, par l'entremise du Conseil économique et social, un  rapport sur ses activités.
6. Les Etats parties assurent à leurs rapports une large  diffusion dans leur propre pays.
Article 45
Pour promouvoir l'application effective de la Convention et  encourager la coopération internationale dans le domaine visé  par la Convention:
a) Les institutions spécialisées, le Fonds des Nations  Unies pour l'enfance et d'autres organes des Nations Unies  ont le droit de se faire représenter lors de l'examen de  l'application des dispositions de la présente Convention qui  relèvent de leur mandat. Le Comité peut inviter les  institutions spécialisées, le Fonds des Nations Unies pour  l'enfance et tous autres organismes qu'il jugera appropriés à  donner des avis spécialisés sur l'application de la  Convention dans les domaines qui relèvent de leurs mandats  respectifs. Il peut inviter les institutions spécialisées, le  Fonds des Nations Unies pour l'enfance et d'autres organes  des Nations Unies à lui présenter des rapports sur  l'application de la Convention dans les secteurs qui relèvent  de leur domaine d'activité;
b) Le Comité transmet, s'il le juge nécessaire, aux  institutions spécialisées, au Fonds des Nations Unies pour  l'enfance et aux autres organismes compétents tout rapport  des Etats parties contenant une demande ou indiquant un  besoin de conseils ou d'assistance techniques, accompagné, le  cas échéant, des observations et suggestions du Comité  touchant ladite demande ou indication;
c) Le Comité peut recommander à l'Assemblée générale de  prier le Secrétaire général de procéder pour le Comité à des 
études sur des questions spécifiques touchant les droits de  l'enfant;
d) Le Comité peut faire des suggestions et des  recommandations d'ordre général fondées sur les  renseignements reçus en application des articles 44 et 45 de  la présente Convention. Ces suggestions et recommandations  d'ordre général sont transmises à tout Etat partie intéressé  et portées à l'attention de l'Assemblée générale,  accompagnées, le cas échéant, des observations des Etats  parties.
Troisième partie
Article 46
La présente Convention est ouverte à la signature de tous  les Etats.
Article 47
La présente Convention est sujette à ratification. Les  instruments de ratification seront déposés auprès du  Secrétaire général de l'Organisation des Nations Unies.
Article 48
La présente Convention restera ouverte à l'adhésion de tout  Etat. Les instruments d'adhésion seront déposés au-près du  Secrétaire général de l'Organisation des Nations Unies.
Article 49
1. La présente Convention entrera en vigueur le trentième  jour qui suivra la date du dépôt auprès du Secrétaire général  de l'Organisation des Nations Unies du vingtième instrument  de ratification ou d'adhésion.
2. Pour chacun des Etats qui ratifieront la présente  Convention ou y adhéreront après le dépôt du vingtième  instrument de ratification ou d'adhésion, la Convention  entrera en vigueur le trentième jour qui suivra le dépôt par  cet Etat de son instrument de ratification ou d'adhésion.
Article 50
1. Tout Etat partie peut proposer un amendement et en  déposer le texte auprès du Secrétaire général de  l'Organisation des Nations Unies. Le Secrétaire général  communique alors la proposition d'amendement aux Etats  parties, en leur demandant de lui faire savoir s'ils sont  favorables à la convocation d'une conférence des Etats  parties en vue de l'examen de la proposition et de sa mise  aux voix. Si, dans les quatre mois qui suivent la date de  cette communication, un tiers au moins des Etats parties se  prononcent en faveur de la convocation d'une telle  conférence, le Secrétaire général convoque la conférence sous  les auspices de l'Organisation des Nations Unies. Tout  amendement adopté par la majorité des Etats parties présents  et votants à la conférence est soumis pour approbation à  l'Assemblée générale de l'Organisation des Nations Unies.
2. Tout amendement adopté conformément aux dispositions du  paragraphe 1 du présent article entre en vigueur lorsqu'il a 
été approuvé par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies et  accepté par une majorité des deux tiers des Etats parties.
3. Lorsqu'un amendement entre en vigueur, il a force  obligatoire pour les Etats parties qui l'ont accepté, les  autres Etats parties demeurant liés par les dispositions de  la présente Convention et par tous amendements antérieurs  acceptés par eux.
Article 51
1. Le Secrétaire général de l'Organisation des Nations  Unies recevra et communiquera à tous les Etats le texte des  réserves qui auront été faites par les Etats au moment de la  ratification ou de l'adhésion.
2. Aucune réserve incompatible avec l'objet et le but de la  présente Convention n'est autorisée.
3. Les réserves peuvent être retirées à tout moment par  notification adressée au Secrétaire général de l'Organisation  des Nations Unies, lequel en informe tous les Etats parties à  la Convention. La notification prend effet à la date à  laquelle elle est reçue par le Secrétaire général.
Article 52
Tout Etat partie peut dénoncer la présente Convention par  notification écrite adressée au Secrétaire général de  l'Organisation des Nations Unies. La dénonciation prend effet  un an après la date à laquelle la notification a été reçue  par le Secrétaire général.
Article 53
Le Secrétaire général de l'Organisation des Nations Unies  est désigné comme dépositaire de la présente Convention.
Article 54
L'original de la présente Convention, dont les textes  anglais, arabe, chinois, espagnol, français et russe font 
également foi, sera déposé auprès du Secrétaire général de  l'Organisation des Nations Unies.
En foi de quoi les plénipotentiaires soussignés, dûment  habilités par leurs gouvernements respectifs, ont signé la  présente Convention.
(Översättning)
Konvention om barnets rättigheter
Inledning
Konventionsstaterna,
som anser att erkännandet av det inneboende värdet hos alla  som tillhör människosläktet och av deras lika och  obestridliga rättigheter utgör grundvalen för frihet,  rättvisa och fred i världen, i enlighet med de principer som  proklamerats i Förenta nationernas stadga,
som beaktar att Förenta nationernas folk i stadgan på nytt  bekräftat sin tro på grundläggande mänskliga rättigheter och  den enskilda människans värdighet och värde och beslutat  främja sociala framsteg och bättre levnadsvillkor under  större frihet,
som erkänner att Förenta nationerna i den allmänna  förklaringen om de mänskliga rättigheterna och i de  internationella konventionerna om mänskliga rättigheter  proklamerat och kommit överens om att varje människa är  berättigad till alla de fri- och rättigheter som däri anges,  utan åtskillnad av något slag, såsom ras, hudfärg, kön,  språk, religion, politisk eller annan uppfattning, nationellt  eller socialt ursprung,
som erinrar om att Förenta nationerna i den allmänna  förklaringen om de mänskliga rättigheterna proklamerat att  barn har rätt till särskild omvårdnad och hjälp,
som är övertygade om att familjen, såsom den grundläggande  enheten i samhället och den naturliga miljön för alla dess  medlemmars och särskilt för barnens utveckling och välfärd,  bör ges nödvändigt skydd och stöd så att den till fullo kan  ta på sig sitt ansvar i samhället,
som erkänner att barnet, för att kunna uppnå en fullständig  och harmonisk utveckling av sin personlighet, bör växa upp i  en familjemiljö, i en miljö präglad av lycka, kärlek och  förståelse,
som anser att barnet till fullo bör förberedas för ett  självständigt liv i samhället och uppfostras enligt de ideal  som proklamerats i Förenta nationernas stadga, och särskilt i  en anda av fred, värdighet, tolerans, frihet, jämlikhet och  solidaritet,
som beaktar att behovet att ge barnet särskild omvårdnad  fastslagits i 1924 års Genèvedeklaration om barnets  rättigheter och i deklarationen om barnets rättigheter, som  antogs av generalförsamlingen den 20 november 1959, och  erkänts i den allmänna förklaringen om de mänskliga  rättigheterna, den internationella konventionen om  medborgerliga och politiska rättigheter (särskilt artiklarna 
23 och 24), den internationella konventionen om ekonomiska,  sociala och kulturella rättigheter (särskilt artikel 10) samt  i stadgar och tillämpliga instrument för fackorgan och  internationella organisationer som arbetar med barns  välfärd,
 som beaktar att "barnet på grund av sin fysiska och  psykiska omognad behöver särskilt skydd och särskild  omvårdnad, inklusive lämpligt rättsligt skydd, såväl före som  efter födelsen", såsom anges i deklarationen om barnets  rättigheter,
som erinrar om bestämmelserna i deklarationen om sociala  och rättsliga principer rörande skydd av och omsorg om barn,  särskilt med hänsyn till nationell och internationell  placering i familjehem och adoption; Förenta nationernas  minimistandardregler för rättskipning rörande  ungdomsbrottslighet (Pekingreglerna) samt deklarationen om  skydd av kvinnor och barn i nödsituationer och vid väpnad  konflikt,
som erkänner att det i alla länder i världen finns barn som  lever under exceptionellt svåra förhållanden och att sådana  barn kräver särskild uppmärksamhet,
som tar vederbörlig hänsyn till vikten av varje folks  traditioner och kulturella värden när det gäller barnets  skydd och harmoniska utveckling.
som erkänner betydelsen av internationellt samarbete för  att förbättra barns levnadsvillkor i varje land, särskilt i  utvecklingsländerna,
har kommit överens om följande:
Del I
Artikel I
I denna konvention avses med barn varje människa under 18  års ålder, om inte barnet blir myndigt tidigare enligt den  lag som gäller för barnet.
Artikel 2
1. Konventionsstaterna ska respektera och tillförsäkra  varje barn inom deras jurisdiktion de rättigheter som anges i  denna konvention utan åtskillnad av något slag, oavsett  barnets eller dess förälders eller vårdnadshavares ras,  hudfärg, kön, språk, religion, politiska eller annan  åskådning, nationella, etniska eller sociala ursprung,  egendom, funktionsnedsättning, börd eller ställning i  övrigt.
2. Konventionsstaterna ska vidta alla lämpliga åtgärder för  att säkerställa att barnet skyddas mot alla former av  diskriminering eller bestraffning på grund av föräldrars,  vårdnadshavares eller familjemedlemmars ställning,  verksamhet, uttryckta åsikter eller tro.
Artikel 3
1. Vid alla åtgärder som rör barn, vare sig de vidtas av  offentliga eller privata sociala välfärdsinstitutioner,  domstolar, administrativa myndigheter eller lagstiftande  organ, ska i första hand beaktas vad som bedöms vara barnets  bästa.
2. Konventionsstaterna åtar sig att tillförsäkra barnet  sådant skydd och sådan omvårdnad som behövs för dess välfärd,  med hänsyn tagen till de rättigheter och skyldigheter som  tillkommer dess föräldrar, vårdnadshavare eller andra  personer som har juridiskt ansvar för barnet, och ska för  detta ändamål vidta alla lämpliga lagstiftningsåtgärder och  administrativa åtgärder.
3. Konventionsstaterna ska säkerställa att institutioner,  tjänster och inrättningar som ansvarar för omvårdnad eller  skydd av barn uppfyller av behöriga myndigheter fastställda  normer, särskilt vad gäller säkerhet, hälsa, personalens  antal och lämplighet samt behörig tillsyn.
Artikel 4
Konventionsstaterna ska vidta alla lämpliga  lagstiftningsåtgärder, administrativa åtgärder och andra  åtgärder för att genomföra de rättigheter som erkänns i denna  konvention. I fråga om ekonomiska, sociala och kulturella  rättigheter ska konventionsstaterna till fullo utnyttja sina  tillgängliga resurser för att vidta sådana åtgärder. Vid  behov ska sådana åtgärder vidtas inom ramen för det  internationella samarbetet.
Artikel 5
Konventionsstaterna ska respektera det ansvar och de  rättigheter och skyldigheter som tillkommer föräldrar eller,  där så är tillämpligt, medlemmar av den utvidgade familjen  eller gemenskapen enligt lokal sedvänja, vårdnadshavare eller  andra personer som har juridiskt ansvar för barnet, att på  ett sätt som står i överensstämmelse med den fortlöpande  utvecklingen av barnets förmåga ge lämplig ledning och råd då  barnet utövar de rättigheter som erkänns i denna konvention.
Artikel 6
1. Konventionsstaterna erkänner varje barns inneboende rätt  till livet.
2. Konventionsstaterna ska till det yttersta av sin förmåga  säkerställa barnets överlevnad och utveckling.
Artikel 7
1. Barnet ska registreras omedelbart efter födelsen och  från födelsen ha rätt till ett namn, rätt att förvärva ett  medborgarskap och, så långt det är möjligt, rätt att få veta  vilka dess föräldrar är och få deras omvårdnad.
2. Konventionsstaterna ska säkerställa genomförandet av  dessa rättigheter i enlighet med sin nationella lagstiftning  och sina åtaganden enligt tillämpliga internationella  instrument på detta område, särskilt i de fall då barnet  annars skulle vara statslöst.
Artikel 8
1. Konventionsstaterna förbinder sig att respektera barnets  rätt att behålla sin identitet, inklusive medborgarskap, namn  och släktförhållanden såsom dessa erkänns i lag, utan  olagligt ingripande.
2. Om ett barn olagligt berövas en del av eller hela sin  identitet, ska konventionsstaterna ge lämpligt stöd och skydd  i syfte att snabbt återupprätta barnets identitet.
Artikel 9
1. Konventionsstaterna ska säkerställa att ett barn inte  skiljs från sina föräldrar mot deras vilja utom i de fall då  behöriga myndigheter, som är underställda rättslig prövning,  i enlighet med tillämplig lag och tillämpliga förfaranden,  bedömer att ett sådant åtskiljande är nödvändigt för barnets  bästa. Ett sådant beslut kan vara nödvändigt i ett särskilt  fall, t.ex. vid övergrepp mot eller vanvård av barnet från  föräldrarnas sida eller då föräldrarna lever åtskilda och ett  beslut måste fattas om var barnet ska bo.
2. Vid förfaranden enligt punkt 1 i denna artikel ska alla  berörda parter beredas möjlighet att delta i förfarandet och  att lägga fram sina synpunkter.
3. Konventionsstaterna ska respektera rätten för det barn  som är skilt från den ena av eller båda föräldrarna att  regelbundet upprätthålla ett personligt förhållande till och  direkta kontakter med båda föräldrarna, utom då detta strider  mot barnets bästa.
4. Då ett sådant åtskiljande är följden av åtgärder som en  konventionsstat tagit initiativet till, t.ex.  frihetsberövande, fängslande, förvisning, utvisning eller  dödsfall (inklusive dödsfall oavsett orsak medan personen är  frihetsberövad) som rör den ena av eller båda föräldrarna  eller barnet, ska den konventionsstaten på begäran ge  föräldrarna, barnet eller, där så är lämpligt, någon annan  medlem av familjen väsentliga upplysningar om var den eller  de frånvarande familjemedlemmarna vistas, såvida inte  lämnandet av upplysningarna skulle vara till skada för  barnet. Konventionsstaterna ska vidare säkerställa att  framställandet av en sådan begäran inte i sig medför negativa  följder för den eller de personer som berörs.
Artikel 10
1. I enlighet med konventionsstaternas skyldighet under  artikel 9.1 ska ansökningar från ett barn eller dess  föräldrar om att resa in i eller lämna en konventionsstat i  familjeåterföreningssyfte behandlas på ett positivt, humant  och skyndsamt sätt av konventionsstaterna.  Konventionsstaterna ska vidare säkerställa att framställandet  av en sådan begäran inte medför negativa följder för de  sökande och medlemmar av deras familj.
2. Ett barn vars föräldrar är bosatta i olika stater ska ha  rätt, utom i undantagsfall, att regelbundet upprätthålla ett  personligt förhållande till och direkta kontakter med båda  föräldrarna. Konventionsstaterna ska för detta ändamål och i  enlighet med sin skyldighet under artikel 9.1 respektera  barnets och dess föräldrars rätt att lämna ett land,  inklusive sitt eget, och att resa in i sitt eget land. Rätten  att lämna ett land ska endast vara underkastad sådana  inskränkningar som är föreskrivna i lag och som är nödvändiga  för att skydda den nationella säkerheten, rättsordningens  grunder (ordre public), folkhälsan eller den allmänna moralen  eller andra personers fri- och rättigheter samt är förenliga  med övriga rättigheter som erkänns i denna konvention.
Artikel 11
1. Konventionsstaterna ska vidta åtgärder för att bekämpa  olovligt bortförande och kvarhållande av barn i utlandet.
2. För detta ändamål ska konventionsstaterna främja  ingåendet av bilaterala eller multilaterala överenskommelser  eller anslutning till befintliga överenskommelser.
Artikel 12
1. Konventionsstaterna ska tillförsäkra det barn som är i  stånd att bilda egna åsikter rätten att fritt uttrycka dessa  i alla frågor som rör barnet. Barnets åsikter ska tillmätas  betydelse i förhållande till barnets ålder och mognad.
2. För detta ändamål ska barnet, i alla domstolsförfaranden  och administrativa förfaranden som rör barnet, särskilt  beredas möjlighet att höras, antingen direkt eller genom en  företrädare eller ett lämpligt organ och på ett sätt som är  förenligt med nationella procedurregler.
Artikel 13
1. Barnet ska ha rätt till yttrandefrihet. Denna rätt  innefattar frihet att oberoende av territoriella gränser  söka, ta emot och sprida information och tankar av alla slag,  i tal, skrift eller tryck, i konstnärlig form eller genom  annat uttrycksmedel som barnet väljer.
2. Utövandet av denna rätt får underkastas vissa  inskränkningar men endast sådana som är föreskrivna i lag och  som är nödvändiga:
(a) för att respektera andra personers rättigheter eller  anseende, eller,
(b) för att skydda den nationella säkerheten,  rättsordningens grunder (ordre public) eller folkhälsan eller  den allmänna moralen.
Artikel 14
1. Konventionsstaterna ska respektera barnets rätt till  tankefrihet, samvetsfrihet och religionsfrihet.
2. Konventionsstaterna ska respektera föräldrarnas och, i  förekommande fall, vårdnadshavares rättigheter och  skyldigheter att på ett sätt som är förenligt med barnets  fortlöpande utveckling ge barnet ledning då det utövar sin  rätt.
3. Friheten att utöva sin religion eller tro får  underkastas endast sådana inskränkningar som är föreskrivna i  lag och som är nödvändiga för att skydda den allmänna  säkerheten, rättsordningens grunder, folkhälsan eller den  allmänna moralen eller andra personers grundläggande fri- och  rättigheter.
Artikel 15
1. Konventionsstaterna erkänner barnets rätt till  föreningsfrihet och till fredliga sammankomster.
2. Utövandet av dessa rättigheter får inte underkastas  andra inskränkningar än sådana som är föreskrivna i lag och  som är nödvändiga i ett demokratiskt samhälle med hänsyn till  den nationella säkerheten eller den allmänna säkerheten,  rättsordningens grunder (ordre public), skyddet av folkhälsan  eller den allmänna moralen eller skyddet av andra personers  fri- och rättigheter.
Artikel 16
1. Inget barn får utsättas för godtyckliga eller olagliga  ingripanden i sitt privat- och familjeliv, sitt hem eller sin  korrespondens och inte heller för olagliga angrepp på sin  heder och sitt anseende.
2. Barnet har rätt till lagens skydd mot sådana ingripanden  eller angrepp.
Artikel 17
Konventionsstaterna erkänner den viktiga uppgift som  massmedier utför och ska säkerställa att barnet har tillgång  till information och material från olika nationella och  internationella källor, särskilt sådant som syftar till att  främja dess sociala, andliga och moraliska välmående samt  fysiska och psykiska hälsa. Konventionsstaterna ska för detta  ändamål:
(a) uppmuntra massmedier att sprida information och  material av socialt och kulturellt värde för barnet och i  enlighet med andan i artikel 29,
(b) uppmuntra internationellt samarbete vad gäller  produktion, utbyte och spridning av sådan information och  sådant material från olika kulturer och nationella och  internationella källor,
(c) uppmuntra produktion och spridning av barnböcker,
(d) uppmuntra massmedier att ta särskild hänsyn till de  språkliga behoven hos ett barn som tillhör en minoritetsgrupp  eller ett urfolk,
(e) uppmuntra utvecklingen av lämpliga riktlinjer för att  skydda barnet mot information och material som är till skada  för barnets välfärd, med beaktande av bestämmelserna i  artiklarna 13 och 18.
Artikel 18
1. Konventionsstaterna ska göra sitt bästa för att  säkerställa erkännandet av principen att båda föräldrarna har  gemensamt ansvar för barnets uppfostran och utveckling.  Föräldrar eller, i förekommande fall, vårdnadshavare har  huvudansvaret för barnets uppfostran och utveckling. Dessa  ska låta sig vägledas av vad som bedöms vara barnets bästa.
2. För att garantera och främja de rättigheter som anges i  denna konvention ska konventionsstaterna ge lämpligt stöd  till föräldrar och vårdnadshavare då de fullgör sitt ansvar  för barnets uppfostran och säkerställa utvecklingen av  institutioner, inrättningar och tjänster för omvårdnad av  barn.
3. Konventionsstaterna ska vidta alla lämpliga åtgärder för  att säkerställa att barn till förvärvsarbetande föräldrar har  rätt att åtnjuta den barnomsorg som de är berättigade till.
Artikel 19
1. Konventionsstaterna ska vidta alla lämpliga  lagstiftningsåtgärder, administrativa, sociala och  utbildningsmässiga åtgärder för att skydda barnet mot alla  former av fysiskt eller psykiskt våld, skada eller övergrepp,  vanvård eller försumlig behandling, misshandel eller  utnyttjande, inklusive sexuella övergrepp, medan barnet är i  föräldrarnas eller den ena förälderns, vårdnadshavarens eller  annan persons vård.
2. Sådana skyddsåtgärder bör, där så är lämpligt, innefatta  effektiva förfaranden för såväl upprättandet av sociala  program som syftar till att ge barnet och de personer som har  hand om barnet nödvändigt stöd, som för andra former av  förebyggande och för identifiering, rapportering,  remittering, undersökning, behandling och uppföljning av fall  av ovan beskrivna sätt att behandla barn illa och, där så är  lämpligt, förfaranden för rättsligt ingripande.
Artikel 20
1. Ett barn som tillfälligt eller varaktigt berövats sin  familjemiljö, eller som för sitt eget bästa inte kan tillåtas  stanna kvar i denna miljö, ska ha rätt till särskilt skydd  och stöd från statens sida.
2. Konventionsstaterna ska i enlighet med sin nationella  lagstiftning säkerställa alternativ omvårdnad för ett sådant  barn.
3. Sådan omvårdnad kan bl.a. innefatta placering i  familjehem, kafalah i islamsk rätt, adoption eller, om  nödvändigt, placering i lämpliga institutioner för omvårdnad  av barn. Då lösningar övervägs ska vederbörlig hänsyn tas  till önskvärdheten av kontinuitet i ett barns uppfostran och  till barnets etniska, religiösa, kulturella och språkliga  bakgrund.
Artikel 21
Konventionsstater som erkänner och/eller tillåter adoption  ska säkerställa att största vikt ges till vad som bedöms vara  barnets bästa och ska:
(a) säkerställa att adoption av ett barn godkänns endast av  behöriga myndigheter, som i enlighet med tillämplig lag och  tillämpliga förfaranden och på grundval av all relevant och  tillförlitlig information beslutar att adoptionen kan  tillåtas med hänsyn till barnets ställning i förhållande till  föräldrar, släktingar och vårdnadshavare och att, om så  krävs, de personer som berörs har lämnat ett informerat  samtycke till adoptionen på grundval av sådan rådgivning som  kan behövas,
(b) erkänna att internationell adoption kan övervägas som  en alternativ form av omvårdnad om barnet, om barnet inte kan  placeras i ett familjehem eller en adoptivfamilj eller kan  tas om hand på lämpligt sätt i sitt hemland,
(c) säkerställa att det barn som berörs av internationell  adoption omfattas av garantier och normer som motsvarar dem  som gäller vid nationell adoption,
(d) vidta alla lämpliga åtgärder för att vid internationell  adoption säkerställa att placeringen inte leder till  otillbörlig ekonomisk vinning för de personer som medverkar i  denna,
(e) främja, där så är lämpligt, målen i denna artikel genom  att ingå bilaterala eller multilaterala arrangemang eller  överenskommelser och inom denna ram sträva efter att  säkerställa att placeringen av barnet i ett annat land sker  genom behöriga myndigheter eller organ.
Artikel 22
1. Konventionsstaterna ska vidta lämpliga åtgärder för att  säkerställa att ett barn som söker flyktingstatus eller anses  som flykting i enlighet med tillämplig internationell eller  nationell rätt och tillämpliga förfaranden, och oberoende av  om det kommer ensamt eller tillsammans med sina föräldrar  eller någon annan person, får lämpligt skydd och humanitärt  bistånd vid åtnjutandet av de tillämpliga rättigheter som  anges i denna konvention och i andra internationella  instrument som rör mänskliga rättigheter eller humanitär  rätt, som nämnda stater tillträtt.
2. För detta ändamål ska konventionsstaterna, på sätt de  finner lämpligt, samarbeta i varje ansträngning som görs av  Förenta nationerna och andra behöriga mellanstatliga  organisationer eller ickestatliga organisationer, som  samarbetar med Förenta nationerna, för att skydda och bistå  ett sådant barn och för att spåra föräldrarna eller andra  familjemedlemmar till ett flyktingbarn i syfte att få den  information som är nödvändig för att barnet ska kunna  återförenas med sin familj. I fall då föräldrar eller andra  familjemedlemmar inte kan påträffas, ska barnet ges samma  skydd som varje annat barn som varaktigt eller tillfälligt  berövats sin familjemiljö av något skäl, i enlighet med denna  konvention.
Artikel 23
1. Konventionsstaterna erkänner att ett barn med fysisk  eller psykisk funktionsnedsättning bör åtnjuta ett  fullvärdigt och anständigt liv under förhållanden som  säkerställer värdighet, främjar tilltron till den egna  förmågan och möjliggör barnets aktiva deltagande i  samhället.
2. Konventionsstaterna erkänner rätten till särskild  omvårdnad för ett barn med funktionsnedsättning och ska, inom  ramen för tillgängliga resurser, uppmuntra och säkerställa  att det berättigade barnet och de som ansvarar för dess  omvårdnad får stöd för vilket ansökan föreligger, i enlighet  med vad som är lämpligt med hänsyn till barnets tillstånd och  föräldrarnas förhållanden eller förhållandena hos andra som  tar hand om barnet.
3. Med hänsyn till att ett barn med funktionsnedsättning  har särskilda behov ska det stöd som lämnas enligt punkt 2 i  denna artikel vara kostnadsfritt, då så är möjligt, med  beaktande av föräldrarnas ekonomiska tillgångar eller de  ekonomiska tillgångarna hos andra som tar hand om barnet.  Stödet ska syfta till att säkerställa att barnet har effektiv  tillgång till och får utbildning, hälso- och sjukvård,  rehabilitering och habilitering, förberedelse för arbetslivet  och möjligheter till rekreation på ett sätt som bidrar till  barnets största möjliga integrering i samhället och  individuella utveckling, inklusive dess kulturella och  andliga utveckling.
4. Konventionsstaterna ska i en anda av internationellt  samarbete främja utbyte av lämplig information på området för  förebyggande hälso-vård och medicinsk, psykologisk och  funktionell behandling av barn med funktionsnedsättning,  inklusive spridning av och tillgång till information om  habiliteringsmetoder, utbildning och yrkesinriktad  utbildning, i syfte att göra det möjligt för  konventionsstater att förbättra sin kapacitet och kompetens  och vidga sin erfarenhet på dessa områden. Särskild hänsyn  ska härvid tas till utvecklingsländernas behov.
Artikel 24
1. Konventionsstaterna erkänner barnets rätt till bästa  möjliga hälsa och tillgång till hälso- och sjukvård och  rehabilitering. Konventionsstaterna ska sträva efter att  säkerställa att inget barn berövas sin rätt att ha tillgång  till sådan hälso- och sjukvård.
2. Konventionsstaterna ska sträva efter att till fullo  förverkliga denna rätt och ska särskilt vidta lämpliga  åtgärder för att:
(a) minska spädbarns- och barnadödligheten,
(b) säkerställa att alla barn tillhandahålls nödvändig  hälso- och sjukvård med tonvikt på utveckling av  primärvården,
(c) bekämpa sjukdom och undernäring, bland annat inom ramen  för primärvården, genom utnyttjande av lättillgänglig teknik  och tillhandahållande av lämpliga och näringsrika livsmedel  och rent dricksvatten, med beaktande av de faror och risker  som miljöförstöring innebär,
(d) säkerställa tillfredsställande hälso- och sjukvård för  mödrar före och efter förlossningen,
(e) säkerställa att alla grupper i samhället, särskilt  föräldrar och barn, får information om och har tillgång till  undervisning om barnhälsovård och näringslära, fördelarna med  amning, hygien och ren miljö och förebyggande av olycksfall  och får stöd vid användning av sådana grundläggande  kunskaper,
(f) utveckla förebyggande hälso- och sjukvård,  föräldrarådgivning samt undervisning om och hjälp i  familjeplaneringsfrågor.
3. Konventionsstaterna ska vidta alla effektiva och  lämpliga åtgärder i syfte att avskaffa traditionella  sedvänjor som är skadliga för barns hälsa.
4. Konventionsstaterna åtar sig att främja och uppmuntra  internationellt samarbete i syfte att gradvis uppnå det fulla  förverkligandet av den rätt som erkänns i denna artikel.  Särskild hänsyn ska härvid tas till utvecklingsländernas  behov.
Artikel 25
Konventionsstaterna erkänner rätten för ett barn som har  omhändertagits av behöriga myndigheter för omvårdnad, skydd  eller behandling av sin fysiska eller psykiska hälsa till  regelbunden översyn av den behandling som barnet får och alla  andra omständigheter som rör barnets omhändertagande.
Artikel 26
1. Konventionsstaterna ska erkänna varje barns rätt att  åtnjuta social trygghet, inklusive socialförsäkring, och ska  vidta nödvändiga åtgärder för att till fullo förverkliga  denna rätt i enlighet med nationell lagstiftning.
2. Förmånerna ska, där så är lämpligt, beviljas med hänsyn  till de resurser som barnet och de personer som ansvarar för  dess underhåll har och deras omständigheter i övrigt samt med  hänsyn till varje annat förhållande som är av betydelse i  samband med en ansökan om en sådan förmån från barnet eller  för dess räkning.
Artikel 27
1. Konventionsstaterna erkänner varje barns rätt till den  levnadsstandard som krävs för barnets fysiska, psykiska,  andliga, moraliska och sociala utveckling.
2. Föräldrar eller andra som är ansvariga för barnet har,  inom ramen för sin förmåga och sina ekonomiska resurser,  huvudansvaret för att säkerställa de levnadsvillkor som är  nödvändiga för barnets utveckling.
3. Konventionsstaterna ska i enlighet med nationella  förhållanden och inom ramen för sina resurser vidta lämpliga  åtgärder för att bistå föräldrar och andra som är ansvariga  för barnet att genomföra denna rätt och ska vid behov  tillhandahålla materiellt bistånd och stödprogram, särskilt i  fråga om mat, kläder och bostad.
4. Konventionsstaterna ska vidta alla lämpliga åtgärder för  att säkerställa indrivning av underhåll för barnet från  föräldrar eller andra som har ekonomiskt ansvar för barnet,  både inom konventionsstaten och från utlandet. Särskilt i de  fall då den person som har det ekonomiska ansvaret för barnet  bor i en annan stat än barnet ska konventionsstaterna främja  såväl anslutning till internationella överenskommelser eller  ingående av sådana överenskommelser som upprättande av andra  lämpliga arrangemang.
Artikel 28
1. Konventionsstaterna erkänner barnets rätt till  utbildning. I syfte att gradvis förverkliga denna rätt och på  grundval av lika möjligheter ska de särskilt:
(a) göra grundskoleutbildning obligatorisk och  kostnadsfritt tillgänglig för alla,
(b) uppmuntra utvecklingen av olika former av gymnasial  utbildning inklusive såväl högskoleförberedande utbildning  som yrkesutbildning, göra dessa tillgängliga och åtkomliga  för varje barn samt vidta lämpliga åtgärder såsom införande  av kostnadsfri utbildning och ekonomiskt stöd vid behov,
(c) genom varje lämpligt medel göra högre utbildning  tillgänglig för alla på grundval av förmåga,
(d) göra utbildnings- och yrkesrelaterad information och  vägledning tillgänglig och åtkomlig för alla barn,
(e) vidta åtgärder för att uppmuntra regelbunden närvaro i  skolan och minska antalet studieavbrott.
2. Konventionsstaterna ska vidta alla lämpliga åtgärder för  att säkerställa att disciplinen i skolan upprätthålls på ett  sätt som är förenligt med barnets mänskliga värdighet och i  överensstämmelse med denna konvention.
3. Konventionsstaterna ska främja och uppmuntra  internationellt samarbete i utbildningsfrågor, särskilt i  syfte att bidra till att avskaffa okunnighet och analfabetism  i hela världen och för att underlätta tillgång till  vetenskaplig och teknisk kunskap och moderna  undervisningsmetoder. Särskild hänsyn ska härvid tas till  utvecklingsländernas behov.
Artikel 29
1. Konventionsstaterna är överens om att barnets utbildning  ska syfta till att:
(a) utveckla barnets fulla möjligheter i fråga om  personlighet, anlag och fysisk och psykisk förmåga,
(b) utveckla respekt för mänskliga rättigheter och  grundläggande friheter samt för principerna i Förenta  nationernas stadga,
(c) utveckla respekt för barnets föräldrar, för barnets  egna kulturella identitet, språk och värden, för  bosättningslandets och för ursprungslandets nationella värden  och för kulturer som skiljer sig från barnets egen,
(d) förbereda barnet för ett ansvarsfullt liv i ett fritt  samhälle i en anda av förståelse, fred, tolerans,  jämställdhet mellan könen och vänskap mellan alla folk,  etniska, nationella och religiösa grupper och personer som  tillhör ett urfolk,
(e) utveckla respekt för naturmiljön.
2. Inget i denna artikel eller i artikel 28 får tolkas så  att det medför inskränkning i den enskildes och  organisationers rätt att inrätta och driva  utbildningsinstitutioner, dock alltid under förutsättning att  de principer som fastställts i punkt 1 i denna artikel  iakttas och att kraven uppfylls på att undervisningen vid  dessa institutioner ska stå i överensstämmelse med vad som  från statens sida angetts som miniminorm.
Artikel 30
I de stater där det finns etniska, religiösa eller  språkliga minoriteter eller personer som tillhör ett urfolk  ska ett barn som tillhör en sådan minoritet eller ett sådant  urfolk inte förvägras rätten att tillsammans med andra  medlemmar av sin grupp ha sitt eget kulturliv, att bekänna  sig till och utöva sin egen religion eller att använda sitt  eget språk.
Artikel 31
1. Konventionsstaterna erkänner barnets rätt till vila och  fritid, till lek och rekreation anpassad till barnets ålder  och rätt att fritt delta i det kulturella och konstnärliga  livet.
2. Konventionsstaterna ska respektera och främja barnets  rätt att till fullo delta i det kulturella och konstnärliga  livet och ska uppmuntra tillhandahållandet av lämpliga och  lika möjligheter till kulturell och konstnärlig verksamhet  samt till rekreations- och fritidsverksamhet.
Artikel 32
1. Konventionsstaterna erkänner barnets rätt till skydd mot  ekonomiskt utnyttjande och mot att utföra arbete som kan vara  skadligt eller hindra barnets utbildning eller inverka  skadligt på barnets hälsa eller fysiska, psykiska, andliga,  moraliska eller sociala utveckling.
2. Konventionsstaterna ska vidta lagstiftningsåtgärder,  administrativa, sociala och utbildningsmässiga åtgärder för  att säkerställa genomförandet av denna artikel. För detta  ändamål och med beaktande av tillämpliga bestämmelser i andra  internationella instrument ska konventionsstaterna  särskilt:
(a) fastställa en minimiålder eller minimiåldrar  för tillträde till arbete,
(b) föreskriva en lämplig reglering av arbetstid och  arbetsvillkor,
(c) föreskriva lämpliga påföljder eller andra sanktioner i  syfte att säkerställa ett effektivt genomförande av denna  artikel.
Artikel 33
Konventionsstaterna ska vidta alla lämpliga åtgärder,  inklusive lagstiftningsåtgärder, administrativa, sociala och  utbildningsmässiga åtgärder, för att skydda barn från olaglig  användning av narkotika och psykotropa ämnen såsom dessa  definieras i tillämpliga internationella fördrag och för att  förhindra att barn utnyttjas i den olagliga framställningen  av och handeln med sådana ämnen.
Artikel 34
Konventionsstaterna åtar sig att skydda barnet mot alla  former av sexuellt utnyttjande och sexuella övergrepp. För  detta ändamål ska konventionsstaterna särskilt vidta alla  lämpliga nationella, bilaterala och multilaterala åtgärder  för att förhindra:
(a) att ett barn förmås eller tvingas att delta i en  olaglig sexuell handling,
(b) att barn utnyttjas för prostitution eller annan olaglig  sexuell verksamhet,
(c) att barn utnyttjas i pornografiska föreställningar och  i pornografiskt material.
Artikel 35
Konventionsstaterna ska vidta alla lämpliga nationella,  bilaterala och multilaterala åtgärder för att förhindra  bortförande och försäljning av eller handel med barn oavsett  syfte och form.
Artikel 36
Konventionsstaterna ska skydda barnet mot alla andra former  av utnyttjande som kan skada barnet i något avseende.
Artikel 37
Konventionsstaterna ska säkerställa följande:
(a) Inget barn får utsättas för tortyr eller annan grym,  omänsklig eller förnedrande behandling eller bestraffning.  Varken dödsstraff eller livstids fängelse utan möjlighet till  frigivning får utdömas för brott som begåtts av personer  under 18 års ålder,
(b) Inget barn får olagligt eller godtyckligt berövas sin  frihet. Gripande, anhållande, häktning, fängslande eller  annat frihetsberövande av ett barn ska ske i enlighet med lag  och får endast användas som en sista utväg och för kortast  lämpliga tid,
(c) Varje frihetsberövat barn ska behandlas humant och med  respekt för människans inneboende värdighet och på ett sätt  som beaktar behoven hos personer i dess ålder. Särskilt ska  varje frihetsberövat barn hållas åtskilt från vuxna, om det  inte bedöms vara till barnets bästa att inte göra detta, och  ska, utom i undantagsfall, ha rätt att hålla kontakt med sin  familj genom brevväxling och besök,
(d) Varje frihetsberövat barn ska ha rätt att snarast få  tillgång till såväl juridiskt biträde som annat lämpligt  stöd, rätt att få lagligheten i sitt frihetsberövande prövad  av en domstol eller annan behörig, oberoende och opartisk  myndighet samt rätt till ett snabbt beslut i saken.
Artikel 38
1. Konventionsstaterna åtar sig att respektera och  säkerställa respekten för regler i internationell humanitär  rätt som är tillämpliga på dem i väpnade konflikter och som  är relevanta för barnet.
2. Konventionsstaterna ska vidta alla tänkbara åtgärder för  att säkerställa att personer som inte uppnått 15 års ålder  inte deltar direkt i fientligheter.
3. Konventionsstaterna ska avstå från att rekrytera en  person som inte har uppnått 15 års ålder till sina väpnade  styrkor. Då rekrytering sker bland personer som fyllt 15 men  inte 18 år, ska konventionsstaterna sträva efter att i första  hand rekrytera dem som är äldst.
4. Konventionsstaterna ska i enlighet med sina åtaganden  enligt internationell humanitär rätt om att skydda  civilbefolkningen i väpnade konflikter, vidta alla tänkbara  åtgärder för att säkerställa skydd och omvårdnad av barn som  berörs av en väpnad konflikt.
Artikel 39
Konventionsstaterna ska vidta alla lämpliga åtgärder för  att främja fysisk och psykisk rehabilitering samt social  återanpassning av ett barn som utsatts för någon form av  vanvård, utnyttjande eller övergrepp; tortyr eller någon  annan form av grym, omänsklig eller förnedrande behandling  eller bestraffning; eller väpnade konflikter. Sådan  rehabilitering och sådan återanpassning ska äga rum i en  miljö som främjar barnets hälsa, självrespekt och  värdighet.
Artikel 40
1. Konventionsstaterna erkänner rätten för varje barn som  misstänks eller åtalas för eller befunnits skyldigt att ha  begått brott att behandlas på ett sätt som främjar barnets  känsla av värdighet och värde, som stärker barnets respekt  för andras mänskliga rättigheter och grundläggande friheter  och som tar hänsyn till barnets ålder och det önskvärda i att  främja att barnet återanpassas till och tar på sig en  konstruktiv roll i samhället.
2. För detta ändamål och med beaktande av tillämpliga  bestämmelser i internationella instrument ska  konventionsstaterna säkerställa följande:
(a) Inget barn ska misstänkas eller åtalas för eller  befinnas skyldigt att ha begått brott på grund av en handling  eller underlåtenhet som inte var förbjuden enligt nationell  eller internationell rätt vid den tidpunkt då den begicks,
(b) Varje barn som misstänks eller åtalas för att ha begått  brott ska ha åtminstone följande garantier:
(i) att betraktas som oskyldigt till dess att barnets skuld  lagligen fastställts,
(ii) att snarast och direkt underrättas om anklagelserna  mot sig och, om lämpligt, genom sina föräldrar eller  vårdnadshavare, och att få juridiskt biträde eller annan  lämplig hjälp vid förberedelse och framläggande av sitt  försvar,
(iii) att utan dröjsmål få saken avgjord av en behörig,  oberoende och opartisk myndighet eller rättskipande organ i  en opartisk förhandling enligt lag och i närvaro av juridiskt  eller annat lämpligt biträde och, såvida det inte anses  strida mot barnets bästa, särskilt med beaktande av barnets  ålder eller situation, barnets föräldrar eller  vårdnadshavare,
(iv) att inte tvingas att avge vittnesmål eller erkänna sig  skyldigt; att förhöra eller låta förhöra vittnen som åberopas  mot barnet samt att på lika villkor få vittnen inkallade och  förhörda för barnets räkning,
(v) att, om barnet anses ha begått brott, få detta beslut  och beslut om åtgärder till följd därav omprövade av en högre  behörig, oberoende och opartisk myndighet eller rättskipande  organ enligt lag,
(vi) att utan kostnad få hjälp av tolk, om barnet inte kan  förstå eller tala det språk som används,
(vii) att få sitt privatliv till fullo respekterat under  alla stadier i förfarandet.
3. Konventionsstaterna ska söka främja införandet av lagar  och förfaranden samt inrättandet av myndigheter och  institutioner som är speciellt anpassade för barn som  misstänks eller åtalas för eller befinns skyldiga till att ha  begått brott och ska särskilt:
(a) fastställa en lägsta straffbarhetsålder,
(b) vidta åtgärder, då så är lämpligt och önskvärt, för  behandling av ärenden som rör barn under denna ålder utanför  domstol, under förutsättning att mänskliga rättigheter och  rättsligt skydd till fullo respekteras.
4. Olika åtgärder som t.ex. vård, ledning och föreskrifter  om tillsyn, rådgivning, övervakning, familjehemsplacering,  utbildnings- och yrkesutbildningsprogram och andra alternativ  till anstaltsvård ska finnas tillgängliga för att säkerställa  att barn behandlas på ett sätt som är lämpligt för deras  välmående och är rimligt både med hänsyn till de-ras  personliga förhållanden och till brottet.
Artikel 41
Inget i denna konvention ska inverka på bestämmelser som är  mer långtgående vad gäller att förverkliga barnets  rättigheter och som kan finnas i:
(a) en konventionsstats lagstiftning, eller
(b) för den staten gällande internationell rätt.
Del II
Artikel 42
Konventionsstaterna åtar sig att genom lämpliga och aktiva  åtgärder göra konventionens bestämmelser och principer  allmänt kända bland såväl vuxna som barn.
Artikel 43
1. För att granska de framsteg som gjorts av  konventionsstaterna i fråga om genomförandet av  skyldigheterna enligt denna konvention ska en kommitté för  barnets rättigheter upprättas, som ska utföra de uppgifter  som föreskrivs i det följande.
2. Kommittén ska vara sammansatt av arton experter med högt  moraliskt anseende och erkänd sakkunskap på det område som  denna konvention omfattar.(3) Kommitténs medlemmar ska väljas  av konventionsstaterna bland deras medborgare och ska  tjänstgöra i sin personliga egenskap, varvid avseende ska  fästas vid en rättvis geografisk fördelning och de främsta  rättssystemen.
(3) I resolution 50/155 av den 21 december 1995 antog  generalförsamlingen en ändring av artikel 43.2 i konventionen  om barnets rättigheter, genom vilken ordet "tio" ersätts med 
"arton". Ändringen trädde i kraft den 18 november 2002 efter  att den antagits med två tredjedels majoritet av de  fördragsslutande parterna (128 av 191).
3. Kommitténs medlemmar ska väljas genom sluten omröstning  från en förteckning över personer som föreslagits av  konventionsstaterna. Varje konventionsstat får föreslå en  kandidat bland sina egna medborgare.
4. Det första valet till kommittén ska hållas senast sex  månader efter dagen för denna konventions ikraftträdande  och därefter vart annat år. Senast fyra månader före dagen  för varje val ska Förenta nationernas generalsekreterare  skriftligen uppmana konventionsstaterna att inom två  månader inkomma med sina förslag. Generalsekreteraren ska  sedan upprätta och till konventionsstaterna överlämna en  förteckning i alfabetisk ordning över samtliga föreslagna  personer och ange vilka konventionsstater som föreslagit  dem.
5. Val ska hållas vid möten med konventionsstaterna, som  sammankallats av Förenta nationernas generalsekreterare, i  Förenta nationernas högkvarter. Vid dessa möten, där  beslutsmässighet uppnås när två tredjedelar av  konventionsstaterna är närvarande, ska de kandidater som  uppnår det högsta antalet röster och absolut majoritet av de  närvarande och röstande konventionsstaternas röster väljas in  i kommittén.
6. Kommitténs medlemmar ska väljas för en tid av fyra år.  De kan återväljas, om de föreslagits till återval. För fem av  de medlemmar som utsetts vid det första valet ska mandattiden  löpa ut efter två är. Omedelbart efter det första valet ska  namnen på dessa fem medlemmar utses genom lottdragning av  ordföranden vid mötet.
7. Om en kommittémedlem avlider, avsäger sig sitt uppdrag  eller förklarar att han eller hon av någon annan anledning  inte längre kan fullgöra sitt uppdrag inom kommittén, ska den  konventionsstat som föreslog medlemmen, med förbehåll för  kommitténs godkännande, utse en annan expert bland sina  medborgare, som ska inneha uppdraget under återstoden av  mandattiden.
8. Kommittén ska själv fastställa sin arbetsordning.
9. Kommittén ska välja sitt presidium för en  tvåårsperiod.
10. Kommitténs möten ska vanligtvis hållas i  Förenta nationernas högkvarter eller på en annan lämplig  plats, som kommittén bestämmer. Kommittén ska i regel  sammanträda varje år. Kommittémötenas längd ska bestämmas  och, om det är nödvändigt, omprövas vid möte med  konventionsstaterna, med förbehåll för generalförsamlingens  godkännande.
11. Förenta nationernas generalsekreterare ska  tillhandahålla nödvändig personal och resurser för att  möjliggöra för kommittén att effektivt utföra sitt uppdrag  enligt denna konvention.
12. Medlemmarna av den enligt denna konvention upprättade  kommittén ska med godkännande av generalförsamlingen få  ersättning från Förenta nationerna på de villkor som  generalför-samlingen beslutar.
Artikel 44
1. Konventionsstater-na åtar sig att genom Förenta  nationernas generalsekreterare avge rapporter till kommittén  om de åtgärder som de vidtagit för att genomföra de  rättigheter som erkänns i denna konvention och om de framsteg  som gjorts i fråga om åtnjutandet av dessa rättigheter:
(a) inom två år efter konventionens ikraftträdande i den  berörda staten, och
(b) därefter vart femte år.
2. Rapporter enligt denna artikel ska ange eventuella  förhållanden och svårigheter som påverkar i vilken  utsträckning åtagandena enligt denna konvention har  uppfyllts. Rapporterna ska även innehålla tillräcklig  information för att ge kommittén en god uppfattning om  genomförandet av konventionen i det berörda landet.
3. En konventionsstat som har tillställt kommittén en  utförlig första rapport behöver inte i sina följande  rapporter, som avges enligt punkt 1 (b) i denna artikel,  upprepa tidigare lämnad grundläggande information.
4. Kommittén kan begära ytterligare information från  konventionsstaterna om genomförandet av konventionen.
5. Kommittén ska vartannat år genom Förenta nationernas  ekonomiska och sociala råd tillställa generalförsamlingen  rapporter om sin verksamhet.
6. Konventionsstaterna ska göra sina rapporter allmänt  tillgängliga för allmänheten i sina respektive länder.
Artikel 45
För att främja ett effektivt genomförande av konventionen  och internationellt samarbete på det område som konventionen  avser gäller följande:
(a) Fackorganen, Förenta nationernas barnfond och andra  FN-organ ska ha rätt att vara representerade vid granskningen  av genomförandet av sådana bestämmelser i denna konvention  som faller inom ramen för deras mandat. Kommittén kan, såsom  den finner lämpligt, bjuda in fackorganen, Förenta  nationernas barnfond och andra behöriga organ att ge  expertråd avseende genomförandet av konventionen på områden  som faller inom ramen för deras respektive  verksamhetsområden. Kommittén kan bjuda in fackorganen,  Förenta nationernas barnfond och andra FN-organ att inkomma  med rapporter om genomförandet av konventionen inom områden  som faller inom ramen för deras respektive  verksamhetsområde,
(b) Kommittén ska, såsom den finner lämpligt, till  fackorganen, Förenta nationernas barnfond och andra behöriga  organ överlämna rapporter från konventionsstaterna som  innehåller en begäran om eller anger behov av teknisk  rådgivning eller tekniskt bistånd jämte kommitténs synpunkter  och eventuella förslag beträffande sådan begäran eller sådant  behov,
(c) Kommittén kan rekommendera generalförsamlingen att  framställa en begäran till generalsekreteraren om att för  kommitténs räkning genomföra studier i särskilda frågor som  rör barnets rättigheter,
(d) Kommittén kan avge förslag och allmänna  rekommendationer på grundval av den information som erhållits  enligt artiklarna 44 och 45 i denna konvention. Sådana  förslag och allmänna rekommendationer ska tillställas varje  konventionsstat som berörs samt rapporteras till  generalförsamlingen tillsammans med eventuella kommentarer  från konventionsstaterna.
Del III
Artikel 46
Denna konvention ska vara öppen för undertecknande av alla  stater.
Artikel 47
Denna konvention ska ratificeras. Ratifikationsinstrumenten  ska deponeras hos Förenta nationernas generalsekreterare.
Artikel 48
Denna konvention ska förbli öppen för anslutning av vilken  stat som helst. Anslutningsinstrumenten ska deponeras hos  Förenta nationernas generalsekreterare.
Artikel 49
1. Denna konvention träder i kraft den trettionde dagen  efter dagen för deponeringen av det tjugonde ratifikations-  eller anslutningsinstrumentet hos Förenta nationernas  generalsekreterare.
2. I förhållande till varje stat som ratificerar eller  ansluter sig till konventionen efter deponeringen av det  tjugonde ratifikations- eller anslutningsinstrumentet träder  konventionen i kraft den trettionde dagen efter det att en  sådan stat deponerat sitt ratifikations- eller  anslutningsinstrument.
Artikel 50
1. En konventionsstat kan föreslå en ändring av  konventionen och överlämna förslaget till Förenta nationernas  generalsekreterare. Generalsekreteraren ska sedan översända  ändringsförslaget till konventionsstaterna tillsammans med en  begäran om att de ska ange om de förordar att en konferens  med konventionsstaterna anordnas i syfte att behandla och  rösta om förslagen. Om minst en tredjedel av staterna inom  fyra månader efter förslagets översändande tillstyrker en  sådan konferens, ska generalsekreteraren sammankalla  konferensen i Förenta nationernas regi. Ändringsförslag som  antagits av en majoritet av de vid konferensen närvarande och  röstande konventionsstaterna ska underställas  generalförsamlingen för godkännande.
2. En ändring som antagits i enlighet med punkt 1 i denna  artikel träder i kraft när den har godkänts av Förenta  nationernas generalförsamling och antagits av  konventionsstaterna med två tredjedels majoritet.
3. När en ändring träder i kraft ska den vara bindande för  de konventionsstater som har antagit den, medan övriga  konventionsstater fortfarande är bundna av bestämmelserna i  denna konvention och eventuella tidigare ändringar som de  antagit.
Artikel 51
1. Förenta nationernas generalsekreterare ska ta emot och  till alla stater delge texten till reservationer som staterna  anmält vid ratifikationen eller anslutningen.
2. En reservation som strider mot denna konventions ändamål  och syfte ska inte tillåtas.
3. Reservationer kan när som helst dras tillbaka genom  notifikation till Förenta nationernas generalsekreterare, som  därefter ska underrätta alla stater. Notifikationen ska gälla  från den dag då den mottogs av generalsekreteraren.
Artikel 52
En konventionsstat kan säga upp denna konvention genom  skriftlig notifikation till Förenta nationernas  generalsekreterare. Uppsägningen träder i kraft ett år efter  den dag då notifikationen mottogs av generalsekreteraren.
Artikel 53
Förenta nationernas generalsekreterare utses till  depositarie för denna konvention.
Artikel 54
Originalet till denna konvention, vars arabiska, engelska,  franska, kinesiska, ryska och spanska texter har lika  giltighet, ska deponeras hos Förenta nationernas  generalsekreterare.
Till bekräftelse härav har undertecknade ombud, därtill  vederbörligen befullmäktigade av sina respektive regeringar,  undertecknat denna konvention.
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.