Title: Lag (2021:1106) om skatteavtal mellan Sverige och Slovenien
SFS Number: Svensk författningssamling 2021:1106
URL: https://www.riksdagen.se/sv/dokument-och-lagar/dokument/svensk-forfattningssamling/lag-20211106-om-skatteavtal-mellan-sverige-och_sfs-2021-1106/
Source Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfst?bet=2021:1106
Amendment Register Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfsr?bet=2021:1106
Ministry/Authority: Finansdepartementet
Issued: 2021-11-25
Metadata: {"Utfärdad": "2021-11-25", "Ändrad": "t.o.m. SFS 2021:1204"}

==================================================

Lag (2021:1106) om skatteavtal mellan Sverige och Slovenien
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.
SFS nr
:     
2021:1106
Departement/myndighet
:   
Finansdepartementet
Utfärdad
:   
2021-11-25
Ändrad
:   
t.o.m. SFS 2021:1204
Ändringsregister
:
SFSR (Regeringskansliet)
Källa
:
Fulltext (Regeringskansliet)
Innehåll:
Övergångsbestämmelser
1 §
Det avtal för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning beträffande  skatter på inkomst och på förmögenhet samt förhindrande av  skatteflykt och skatteundandragande som Sverige och Slovenien  undertecknade den 12 maj 2021 ska, tillsammans med det  protokoll som är fogat till avtalet och utgör en del av detta,  gälla som lag här i landet. Avtalet är avfattat på engelska.  Den engelska texten och en svensk översättning av avtalet  framgår av bilagan till denna lag.
2 §
Avtalets beskattningsregler ska tillämpas endast till den  del dessa medför inskränkning av den skattskyldighet i Sverige  som annars skulle föreligga.
Övergångsbestämmelser
2021:1106
1. Denna lag träder i kraft den dag som regeringen bestämmer.
2. Lagen tillämpas första gången i fråga om
a) källskatter, på belopp som betalas eller tillgodoförs den 1  januari det år som följer närmast efter den dag då lagen  träder i kraft eller senare,
b) andra skatter på inkomst och på förmögenhet, på skatt som  påförs för beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari det år som  följer närmast efter den dag då lagen träder i kraft eller  senare, och
c) informationsutbyte enligt artikel 25 i avtalet, på begäran  som framställs den dag då lagen träder i kraft eller senare  oavsett vilket år som beskattningsanspråket hänför sig till.
3. Följande författningar ska inte längre tillämpas såvitt  avser förhållandet mellan Sverige och Slovenien
a) förordningen (1982:70) om dubbelbeskattningsavtal mellan  Sverige och Jugoslavien,
b) förordningen (1982:71) om kupongskatt för person med  hemvist i Jugoslavien, m.m.
4. Förordningen (1982:70) om dubbelbeskattningsavtal mellan  Sverige och Jugoslavien tillämpas dock fortfarande i fråga om
a) källskatter, på belopp som betalas eller tillgodoförs före  den 1 januari det år som följer närmast efter den dag då lagen  träder i kraft, och
b) andra skatter på inkomst och på förmögenhet, på skatt som  påförs för beskattningsår som börjar före den 1 januari det år  som följer närmast efter den dag då lagen träder i kraft.
5. Artikel 18 punkterna 1-3 i bilagan till förordningen 
(1982:70) om dubbelbeskattningsavtal mellan Sverige och  Jugoslavien tillämpas fortfarande i fråga om en fysisk person  som omedelbart före ikraftträdandet av avtalet av den 12 maj 
2021 var mottagare av betalning som omfattas av nämnda  bestämmelser och denne, i enlighet med artikel 28 punkt 5 i  avtalet har valt att dessa bestämmelser, och inte  bestämmelserna i artikel 17 i avtalet, ska tillämpas på sådan  betalning. De äldre bestämmelserna ska tillämpas från och med  det år då valet görs och till dess valet återkallas. När ett  val har återkallats kan inget nytt val göras.
Bilaga
CONVENTION BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN AND THE REPUBLIC OF  SLOVENIA FOR THE ELIMINATION OF DOUBLE TAXATION WITH RESPECT  TO TAXES ON INCOME AND ON CAPITAL AND THE PREVENTION OF TAX  EVASION AND AVOIDANCE
The Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Slovenia,
Intending to conclude a Convention for the elimination of  double taxation with respect to taxes on income and on capital  without creating opportunities for non-taxation or reduced  taxation through tax evasion or avoidance (including through  treaty-shopping arrangements aimed at obtaining reliefs  provided in this Convention for the indirect benefit of  residents of third States),
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
Persons covered
1. This Convention shall apply to persons who are residents of  one or both of the Contracting States.
2. For the purposes of this Convention, income derived by or  through an entity or arrangement that is treated as wholly or  partly fiscally transparent under the tax law of either  Contracting State shall be considered to be income of a  resident of a Contracting State but only to the extent that  the income is treated, for purposes of taxation by that State,  as the income of a resident of that State. In no case shall  the provisions of this paragraph be construed to affect a  Contracting State's right to tax the residents of that State.
Article 2
Taxes covered
1. This Convention shall apply to taxes on income and on  capital imposed on behalf of a Contracting State or of its  political subdivisions or local authorities, irrespective of  the manner in which they are levied.
2. There shall be regarded as taxes on income and on capital  all taxes imposed on total income, on total capital, or on  elements of income or of capital, including taxes on gains  from the alienation of movable or immovable property, as well  as taxes on capital appreciation.
3. The existing taxes to which the Convention shall apply are  in particular:
a) in Slovenia:
(i) the tax on income of legal persons (davek od dohodkov  pravnih oseb);
(ii) the tax on income of individuals (dohodnina); and
(iii) the tax on property (davek od premo?enja)
(hereinafter referred to as "Slovenian tax");
b) in Sweden:
(i) the national income tax (den statliga inkomstskatten);
(ii) the withholding tax on dividends (kupongskatten);
(iii) the income tax on non-residents (den särskilda inkomst-
skatten för utomlands bosatta);
(iv) the income tax on non-resident artistes and athletes (den  särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta artister  m.fl.); and
(v) the municipal income tax (den kommunala inkomstskatten)
(hereinafter referred to as "Swedish tax").
4. The Convention shall apply also to any identical or  substantially similar taxes that are imposed after the date of  signature of the Convention in addition to, or in place of,  the existing taxes referred to in paragraph 3. The competent  authorities of the Contracting States shall notify each other  of any significant changes that have been made in their  taxation laws.
Article 3
General definitions
1. For the purposes of this Convention, unless the context  otherwise requires:
a) the term "Slovenia" means the Republic of Slovenia and,  when used in a geographical sense, means the territory of  Slovenia as well as those maritime areas over which Slovenia  may exercise sovereign or jurisdictional rights in accordance  with its internal legislation and international law;
b) the term "Sweden" means the Kingdom of Sweden and, when  used in a geographical sense, includes the national territory,  the territorial sea of Sweden as well as other maritime areas  over which Sweden, in accordance with international law,  exercises sovereign rights or jurisdiction;
c) the terms "a Contracting State" and "the other Contracting  State" mean Slovenia or Sweden, as the context requires;
d) the term "person" includes an individual, a company and any  other body of persons;
e) the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity  that is treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;
f) the term "enterprise" applies to the carrying on of any  business;
g) the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and 
"enterprise of the other Contracting State" mean respectively  an enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State  and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the other  Contracting State;
h) the term "international traffic" means any transport by a  ship or aircraft except when the ship or aircraft is operated  solely between places in a Contracting State and the  enterprise that operates the ship or aircraft is not an  enterprise of that State;
i) the term "competent authority" means:
(i) in Slovenia: the Ministry of Finance or its authorized  representative;
(ii) in Sweden: the Minister of Finance, his authorized  representative or the authority which is designated as a  competent authority for the purposes of this Convention;
j) the term "national", in relation to a Contracting State,  means:
(i) any individual possessing the nationality of that  Contracting State; and
(ii) any legal person, partnership or association deriving its  status as such from the laws in force in that Contracting  State;
k) the term "business" includes the performance of  professional services and of other activities of an  independent character.
2. As regards the application of the Convention at any time by  a Contracting State, any term not defined therein shall,  unless the context otherwise requires, have the meaning that  it has at that time under the law of that State for the  purposes of the taxes to which the Convention applies, any  meaning under the applicable tax laws of that State prevailing  over a meaning given to the term under other laws of that  State.
Article 4
Resident
1. For the purposes of this Convention, the term "resident of  a Contracting State" means any person who, under the laws of  that State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his  domicile, residence, place of management or any other  criterion of a similar nature, and also includes that State  and any governmental body or agency, political subdivision or  local authority thereof. This term, however, does not include  any person who is liable to tax in that State in respect only  of income from sources in that State or capital situated  therein.
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an  individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his  status shall be determined as follows:
a) he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in  which he has a permanent home available to him; if he has a  permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be  deemed to be a resident only of the State with which his  personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital  interests);
b) if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests  cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent home  available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a  resident only of the State in which he has an habitual abode;
c) if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of  them, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State of  which he is a national;
d) if he is a national of both States or of neither of them,  the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall  settle the question by mutual agreement.
3. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 a person  other than an individual is a resident of both Contracting  States, the competent authorities of the Contracting States  shall endeavour to determine by mutual agreement the  Contracting State of which such person shall be deemed to be a  resident for the purposes of the Convention, having regard to  its place of effective management, the place where it is  incorporated or otherwise constituted and any other relevant  factors. In the absence of such agreement, such person shall  not be entitled to any relief or exemption from tax provided  by this Convention except to the extent and in such manner as  may be agreed upon by the competent authorities of the  Contracting States.
Article 5
Permanent establishment
1. For the purposes of this Convention, the term "permanent  establishment" means a fixed place of business through which  the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
2. The term "permanent establishment" includes especially:
a) a place of management;
b) a branch;
c) an office;
d) a factory;
e) a workshop, and
f) a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of  extraction of natural resources.
3. A building site or a construction, assembly or installation  project or supervisory activities in connection therewith  constitutes a permanent establishment only if such site,  project or activities last more than twelve months.
4. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article,  the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed not to  include:
a) the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage,  display or delivery of goods or merchandise belonging to the  enterprise;
b) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise  belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storage,  display or delivery;
c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise  belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of  processing by another enterprise;
d) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the  purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or of collecting  information, for the enterprise;
e) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the  purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any other activity  of a preparatory or auxiliary character;
f) an installation project carried on by an enterprise of a  Contracting State in the other Contracting State in connection  with delivery of machinery or equipment produced by that  enterprise;
g) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any  combination of activities mentioned in subparagraphs a) to f),  provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of  business resulting from this combination is of a preparatory  or auxiliary character.
5. Paragraph 4 shall not apply to a fixed place of business  that is used or maintained by an enterprise if the same  enterprise or a closely related enterprise carries on business  activities at the same place or at another place in the same  Contracting State and
a) that place or other place constitutes a permanent  establishment for the enterprise or the closely related  enterprise under the provisions of this Article, or
b) the overall activity resulting from the combination of the  activities carried on by the two enterprises at the same  place, or by the same enterprise or closely related enter-
prises at the two places, is not of a preparatory or auxiliary  character,
provided that the business activities carried on by the two  enterprises at the same place, or by the same enterprise or  closely related enterprises at the two places, constitute  complementary functions that are part of a cohesive business  operation.
6. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where  a person - other than an agent of an independent status to  whom paragraph 7 applies - is acting on behalf of an  enterprise and has, and habitually exercises, in a Contracting  State an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the  enterprise, that enterprise shall be deemed to have a  permanent establishment in that State in respect of any  activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise,  unless the activities of such person are limited to those  mentioned in paragraph 4 which, if exercised through a fixed  place of business, would not make this fixed place of business  a permanent establishment under the provisions of that  paragraph.
7. An enterprise shall not be deemed to have a permanent  establishment in a Contracting State merely because it carries  on business in that State through a broker, general commission  agent or any other agent of an independent status, provided  that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their  business. However, when the activities of such an agent are  devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise,  and conditions are made or imposed between that enterprise and  the agent in their commercial and financial relations which  differ from those which would have been made between  independent enterprises, he will not be considered an agent of  an independent status within the meaning of this paragraph.
8. The fact that a company which is a resident of a  Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which  is a resident of the other Contracting State, or which carries  on business in that other State (whether through a permanent  establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute  either company a permanent establishment of the other.
9. For the purposes of this Article, an enterprise is closely  related to an enterprise if, based on all the relevant facts  and circumstances, one has control of the other or both are  under the control of the same persons or enterprises. In any  case, an enterprise shall be considered to be closely related  to an enterprise if one possesses directly or indirectly more  than 50 per cent of the beneficial interest in the other (or,  in the case of a company, more than 50 per cent of the  aggregate vote and value of the company's shares or of the  beneficial equity interest in the company) or if another  person or enterprise possesses directly or indirectly more  than 50 per cent of the beneficial interest (or, in the case  of a company, more than 50 per cent of the aggregate vote and  value of the company's shares or of the beneficial equity  interest in the company) in the two enterprises.
Article 6
Income from immovable property
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from  immovable property (including income from agriculture or  forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed  in that other State.
2. The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which  it has under the law of the Contracting State in which the  property in question is situated. The term shall in any case  include property accessory to immovable property, livestock  and equipment used in agriculture and forestry, rights to  which the provisions of general law respecting landed property  apply, buildings, usufruct of immovable property and rights to  variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working  of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other  natural resources; ships and aircraft shall not be regarded as  immovable property.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to income derived  from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form of  immovable property.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to  the income from immovable property of an enterprise.
Article 7
Business profits
1. Profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be  taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries on  business in the other Contracting State through a permanent  establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries on  business as aforesaid, the profits that are attributable to  the permanent establishment in accordance with the provisions  of paragraph 2 may be taxed in that other State.
2. For the purposes of this Article and Article 22, the  profits that are attributable in each Contracting State to the  permanent establishment referred to in paragraph 1 are the  profits it might be expected to make, in particular in its  dealings with other parts of the enterprise, if it were a  separate and independent enterprise engaged in the same or  similar activities under the same or similar conditions,  taking into account the functions performed, assets used and  risks assumed by the enterprise through the permanent  establishment and through the other parts of the enterprise.
3. Where, in accordance with paragraph 2, a Contracting State  adjusts the profits that are attributable to a permanent  establishment of an enterprise of one of the Contracting  States and taxes accordingly profits of the enterprise that  have been charged to tax in the other State, the other  Contracting State shall, to the extent necessary to eliminate  double taxation on these profits, make an appropriate adjust-
ment if it agrees with the adjustment made by the first-
mentioned State; if the other Contracting State does not so  agree, the Contracting States shall endeavour to eliminate any  double taxation resulting therefrom by mutual agreement.
4. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with  separately in other Articles of this Convention, then the  provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the  provisions of this Article.
Article 8
International shipping and air transport
1. Profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State from the  operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic shall  be taxable only in that State.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to profits  from the participation in a pool, a joint business or an  international operating agency.
Article 9
Associated enterprises
1. Where
a) an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly  or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an  enterprise of the other Contracting State, or
b) the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the  management, control or capital of an enterprise of a  Contracting State and an enterprise of the other Contracting  State,
and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the  two enterprises in their commercial or financial relations  which differ from those which would be made between  independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but for  those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises, but,  by reason of those conditions, have not so accrued, may be  included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accord-
ingly.
2. Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an  enterprise of that State - and taxes accordingly - profits on  which an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been  charged to tax in that other State and the profits so included  are profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the  first-mentioned State if the conditions made between the two  enterprises had been those which would have been made between  independent enterprises, then that other State shall make an  appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged  therein on those profits if that other State considers the  adjustment justified. In determining such adjustment, due  regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Convention  and the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall  if necessary consult each other.
Article 10
Dividends
1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a  Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State  may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, dividends paid by a company which is a resident of  a Contracting State may also be taxed in that State according  to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the  dividends is a resident of the other Contracting State, the  tax so charged shall not exceed:
a) 5 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends if the  beneficial owner is a company which holds directly at least 
25 per cent of the capital or controls directly at least 25  per cent of the voting power of the company paying the  dividends throughout a 365 day period that includes the day of  the payment of the dividend (for the purpose of computing that  period, no account shall be taken of changes of ownership that  would directly result from a corporate reorganisation, such as  a merger or divisive reorganisation, of the company that holds  the shares or that pays the dividend);
b) 15 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends in all  other cases.
This paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in  respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.
3. The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income  from shares or other rights, not being debt-claims,  participating in profits, as well as income from other  corporate rights which is subjected to the same taxation  treatment as income from shares by the laws of the State of  which the company making the distribution is a resident.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the  beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a  Contracting State, carries on business in the other  Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is  a resident through a permanent establishment situated therein  and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is  effectively connected with such permanent establishment. In  such case the provisions of Article 7 shall apply.
5. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State  derives profits or income from the other Contracting State,  that other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid  by the company, except insofar as such dividends are paid to a  resident of that other State or insofar as the holding in  respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively  connected with a permanent establishment situated in that  other State, nor subject the company's undistributed profits  to a tax on the company's undistributed profits, even if the  dividends paid or the undistributed profits consist wholly or  partly of profits or income arising in such other State.
Article 11
Interest
1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a  resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that  other State.
2. However, interest arising in a Contracting State may also  be taxed in that State according to the laws of that State,  but if the beneficial owner of the interest is a resident of  the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not  exceed 5 per cent of the gross amount of the interest.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 interest,  mentioned in paragraph 1, shall be taxable only in the  Contracting State of which the beneficial owner of the  interest is a resident if one of the following requirements is  fulfilled:
a) the payer or the recipient of the interest is the  Contracting State itself, a governmental body or agency, a  political subdivision or a local authority thereof or the  Central Bank of a Contracting State;
b) the interest is paid with respect to a loan made,  guaranteed or insured, or a credit extended, guaranteed or  insured by an institution of the other Contacting State with  the objective to promote exports or development;
c) the interest is paid in respect of an indebtedness arising  on the sale on credit of any merchandise or industrial,  commercial or scientific equipment to an enterprise of the  other Contracting State.
4. The term "interest" as used in this Article means income  from debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by  mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in  the debtor's profits, and in particular, income from  government securities and income from bonds or debentures,  including premiums and prizes attaching to such securities,  bonds or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall  not be regarded as interest for the purpose of this Article.
5. The provisions of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply if  the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a  Contracting State, carries on business in the other  Contracting State in which the interest arises through a  permanent establishment situated therein and the debt-claim in  respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected  with such permanent establishment. In such case the provisions  of Article 7 shall apply.
6. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State  when the payer is a resident of that State. Where, however,  the person paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a  Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a  permanent establishment in connection with which the  indebtedness on which the interest is paid was incurred, and  such interest is borne by such permanent establishment, then  such interest shall be deemed to arise in the State in which  the permanent establishment is situated.
7. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the  payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and  some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard  to the debt-claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amount  which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the  beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the  provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-
mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the  payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each  Contracting State, due regard being had to the other  provisions of this Convention.
Article 12
Royalties
1. Royalties arising in a Contracting State and paid to a  resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that  other State.
2. However, royalties arising in a Contracting State may also  be taxed in that State according to the laws of that State,  but if the beneficial owner of the royalties is a resident of  the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not  exceed 5 per cent of the gross amount of the royalties.
3. The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments  of any kind received as a consideration for the use of, or the  right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or  scientific work including cinematograph films, any patent,  trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process,  or for information concerning industrial, commercial or  scientific experience.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the  beneficial owner of the royalties, being a resident of a  Contracting State, carries on business in the other  Contracting State in which the royalties arise through a  permanent establishment situated therein and the right or  property in respect of which the royalties are paid is  effectively connected with such permanent establishment. In  such case the provisions of Article 7 shall apply.
5. Royalties shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State  when the payer is a resident of that State. Where, however,  the person paying the royalties, whether he is a resident of a  Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a  permanent establishment in connection with which the liability  to pay the royalties was incurred, and such royalties are  borne by such permanent establishment, then such royalties  shall be deemed to arise in the State in which the permanent  establishment is situated.
6. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the  payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and  some other person, the amount of the royalties, having regard  to the use, right or information for which they are paid,  exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the  payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such  relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only  to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of  the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of  each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other  provisions of this Convention.
Article 13
Capital gains
1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the  alienation of immovable property referred to in Article 6 and  situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that  other State.
2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part  of the business property of a permanent establishment which an  enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting  State, including such gains from the alienation of such a  permanent establishment (alone or with the whole enterprise),  may be taxed in that other State.
3. Gains that an enterprise of a Contracting State that  operates ships or aircraft in international traffic derives  from the alienation of such ships or aircraft, or of movable  property pertaining to the operation of such ships or  aircraft, shall be taxable only in that State.
4. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the  alienation of shares or comparable interests, such as  interests in a partnership or trust, deriving more than 50 per  cent of their value directly or indirectly from immovable  property, as defined in Article 6, situated in the other  Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
5. Gains from the alienation of any property, other than that  referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4, shall be taxable only  in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.
6. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 5, gains from  the alienation of any property derived by an individual who  has been a resident of a Contracting State and who has become  a resident of the other Contracting State, may be taxed in the  first-mentioned State if the alienation of the property occurs  at any time during the ten years next following the date on  which the individual has ceased to be a resident of the first-
mentioned State. The gain so taxed shall not include the gain,  if any, that accrues during the period during which the  individual is or was a resident of the other Contracting  State.
Article 14
Income from employment
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 15, 17 and 18  salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a  resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment  shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment is  exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is  so exercised, such remuneration as is derived therefrom may be  taxed in that other State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration  derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an  employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be  taxable only in the first-mentioned State if:
a) the recipient is present in the other State for a period or  periods not exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any twelve  month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year  concerned, and
b) the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer  who is not a resident of the other State, and
c) the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment  which the employer has in the other State.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article  and Article 1, remuneration derived by an individual, whether  a resident of a Contracting State or not, in respect of an  employment, as a member of the regular complement of a ship or  aircraft, that is exercised aboard a ship or aircraft operated  in international traffic by an enterprise of a Contracting  State shall be taxable only in that Contracting State. Where,  however, such remuneration is derived by a resident of the  other Contracting State, it may also be taxed in that other  State.
Article 15
Director's fees
Directors' fees and other similar payments derived by a  resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member of  the board of directors or of a similar organ of a company  which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be  taxed in that other State.
Article 16
Entertainers and sportspersons
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 14, income  derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an  entertainer, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or  television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsperson, from  that resident's personal activities as such exercised in the  other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by  an entertainer or a sportsperson acting as such accrues not to  the entertainer or sportsperson but to another person, that  income may, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 14, be  taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the  entertainer or sportsperson are exercised.
Article 17
Pensions, annuities and similar payments
1. Pensions and other similar remuneration (including  annuities) arising in a Contracting State and disbursements  under the Social Security legislation of a Contracting State,  paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed  in the first-mentioned Contracting State.
2. The term "annuity" means a stated sum payable periodically  at stated times during life or during a specified or  ascertainable period of time under an obligation to make the  payments in return for adequate and full consideration in  money or money's worth.
Article 18
Government service
1. a) Salaries, wages and other similar remuneration, other  than income to which Article 17 applies, paid by a Contracting  State or a political subdivision or a local authority thereof  to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State  or subdivision or authority shall be taxable only in that  State.
b) However, such salaries, wages and other similar  remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting  State if the services are rendered in that State and the  individual is a resident of that State who:
(i) is a national of that State; or
(ii) did not become a resident of that State solely for the  purpose of rendering the services.
2. The provisions of Article 14, 15 and 16 shall apply to  salaries, wages, and other similar remuneration in respect of  services rendered in connection with a business carried on by  a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local  authority thereof.
Article 19
Students
1. Payments which a student or business apprentice who is or  was immediately before visiting a Contracting State a resident  of the other Contracting State and who is present in the  first-mentioned State solely for the purpose of his education  or training receives for the purpose of his maintenance,  education or training shall not be taxed in that State,  provided that such payments arise from sources outside that  State.
2. In respect of grants, scholarships and other similar  remuneration and remuneration from employment not covered by  paragraph 1, a student or business apprentice referred to in  paragraph 1 shall, in addition, be entitled during such  education or training to the same exemptions, reliefs or  reductions in respect of taxes available to residents of the  Contracting State which he is visiting.
Article 20
Other income
1. Items of income of a resident of a Contracting State,  wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of  this Convention shall be taxable only in that State.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income,  other than income from immovable property as defined in  paragraph 2 of Article 6, if the recipient of such income,  being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business  in the other Contracting State through a permanent  establishment situated therein and the right or property in  respect of which the income is paid is effectively connected  with such permanent establishment. In such case the provisions  of Article 7 shall apply.
Article 21
Capital
1. Capital represented by immovable property referred to in  Article 6, owned by a resident of a Contracting State and  situated in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that  other State.
2. Capital represented by movable property forming part of the  business property of a permanent establishment which an  enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting  State may be taxed in that other State.
3. Capital of an enterprise of a Contracting State that  operates ships or aircraft in international traffic  represented by such ships or aircraft, and by movable property  pertaining to the operation of such ships or aircraft, shall  be taxable only in that State.
4. All other elements of capital of a resident of a  Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State.
Article 22
Elimination of double taxation
Double taxation shall be eliminated as follows:
1. In Slovenia:
a) Where a resident of Slovenia derives income or owns capital  which, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention,  may be taxed in Sweden, Slovenia shall allow:
(i) as deduction from the tax on the income of that resident,  an amount equal to the income tax paid in Sweden;
(ii) as a deduction from the tax on the capital of that  resident, an amount equal to the capital tax paid in Sweden.
Such deduction in either case shall not, however, exceed that  part of the income tax or capital tax, as computed before the  deduction is given, which is attributable, as the case may be,  to the income or the capital which may be taxed in Sweden.
b) Where in accordance with any provision of the Convention  income derived or capital owned by a resident of Slovenia is  exempt from tax in Slovenia, Slovenia may nevertheless, in  calculating the amount of tax on the remaining income or  capital of such resident, take into account the exempted  income or capital.
2. In Sweden:
a) Where a resident of Sweden derives income which under the  laws of Slovenia and in accordance with the provisions of this  Convention may be taxed in Slovenia, Sweden shall allow -  subject to the provisions of the laws of Sweden concerning  credit for foreign tax (as they may be amended from time to  time without changing the general principle hereof) - as a  deduction from the tax on such income, an amount equal to the  Slovenian tax paid in respect of such income.
b) Where a resident of Sweden derives income which, in  accordance with the provisions of this Convention, shall be  taxable only in Slovenia, Sweden may, when determining the  graduated rate of Swedish tax, take into account the income  which shall be taxable only in Slovenia.
c) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph a) of this  paragraph, dividends paid by a company which is a resident of  Slovenia to a company which is a resident of Sweden shall be  exempt from Swedish tax according to the provisions of Swedish  law governing the exemption of tax on dividends paid to  Swedish companies by companies abroad.
Article 23
Non-discrimination
1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in  the other Contracting State to any taxation or any requirement  connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than  the taxation and connected requirements to which nationals of  that other State in the same circumstances, in particular with  respect to residence, are or may be subjected. This provision  shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1, also apply  to persons who are not residents of one or both of the  Contracting States.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an  enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting  State shall not be less favourably levied in that other State  than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State  carrying on the same activities. This provision shall not be  construed as obliging a Contracting State to grant to resi-
dents of the other Contracting State any personal allowances,  reliefs and reductions for taxation purposes on account of  civil status or family responsibilities which it grants to its  own residents.
3. Except where the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 9,  paragraph 7 of Article 11, or paragraph 6 of Article 12,  apply, interest, royalties and other disbursements paid by an  enterprise of a Contracting State to a resident of the other  Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the  taxable profits of such enterprise, be deductible under the  same conditions as if they had been paid to a resident of the  first-mentioned State. Similarly, any debts of an enterprise  of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting  State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable  capital of such enterprise, be deductible under the same con-
ditions as if they had been contracted to a resident of the  first-mentioned State.
4. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is  wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly,  by one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall  not be subjected in the first-mentioned State to any taxation  or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more  burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to  which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned State  are or may be subjected.
5. The provisions of this Article shall, notwithstanding the  provisions of Article 2, apply to taxes of every kind and  description.
Article 24
Mutual agreement procedure
1. Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of  the Contracting States result or will result for him in  taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this  Convention, he may, irrespective of the remedies provided by  the domestic law of those States, present his case to the  competent authority of the Contracting State of which he is a  resident or, if his case comes under paragraph 1 of  Article 23, to that of the Contracting State of which he is a  national. The case must be presented within three years from  the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not  in accordance with the provisions of the Convention.
2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection  appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to  arrive at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by  mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other  Contracting State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation  which is not in accordance with the Convention. Any agreement  reached shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits  in the domestic law of the Contracting States.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall  endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties or  doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of the  Convention. They may also consult together for the elimination  of double taxation in cases not provided for in the  Convention.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may  communicate with each other directly for the purpose of  reaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding  paragraphs.
Article 25
Exchange of information
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall  exchange such information as is foreseeably relevant for  carrying out the provisions of this Convention or to the  administration or enforcement of the domestic laws concerning  taxes of every kind and description imposed on behalf of the  Contracting States, or of their political subdivisions or  local authorities, insofar as the taxation thereunder is not  contrary to the Convention. The exchange of information is not  restricted by Articles 1 and 2.
2. Any information received under paragraph 1 by a Contracting  State shall be treated as secret in the same manner as  information obtained under the domestic laws of that State and  shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities (including  courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the  assessment or collection of, the enforcement or prosecution in  respect of, the determination of appeals in relation to the  taxes referred to in paragraph 1, or the oversight of the  above. Such persons or authorities shall use the information  only for such purposes. They may disclose the information in  public court proceedings or in judicial decisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, information received by a  Contracting State may be used for other purposes when such  information may be used for such other purposes under the laws  of both States and the competent authority of the supplying  State authorises such use.
3. In no case shall the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 be  construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the  obligation:
a) to carry out administrative measures at variance with the  laws and administrative practice of that or of the other  Contracting State;
b) to supply information which is not obtainable under the  laws or in the normal course of the administration of that or  of the other Contracting State;
c) to supply information which would disclose any trade,  business, industrial, commercial or professional secret or  trade process, or information, the disclosure of which would  be contrary to public policy (ordre public).
4. If information is requested by a Contracting State in  accordance with this Article, the other Contracting State  shall use its information gathering measures to obtain the  requested information, even though that other State may not  need such information for its own tax purposes. The obligation  contained in the preceding sentence is subject to the  limitations of paragraph 3 but in no case shall such  limitations be construed to permit a Contracting State to  decline to supply information solely because it has no do-
mestic interest in such information.
5. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 3 be construed  to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply information  solely because the information is held by a bank, other  financial institution, nominee or person acting in an agency  or a fiduciary capacity or because it relates to ownership  interests in a person.
Article 26
Members of diplomatic missions and consular posts
Nothing in this Convention shall affect the fiscal privileges  of members of diplomatic missions or consular posts under the  general rules of international law or under the provisions of  special agreements.
Article 27
Limitations on benefits
1. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Convention, a  benefit under this Convention shall not be granted in respect  of an item of income or capital if it is reasonable to  conclude, having regard to all relevant facts and  circumstances, that obtaining that benefit was one of the  principal purposes of any arrangement or transaction that  resulted directly or indirectly in that benefit, unless it is  established that granting that benefit in these circumstances  would be in accordance with the object and purpose of the  relevant provisions of this Convention.
2. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Convention,  where
a) a company that is a resident of a Contracting State derives  its income primarily from other States
(i) from activities such as banking, shipping, financing or  insurance or
(ii) from being the headquarters, co-ordination centre or  similar entity providing administrative services or other  support to a group of companies which carry on business  primarily in other States; and
b) such income would bear a significantly lower tax under the  laws of that State than income from similar activities carried  out within that State or from being the headquarters, co-
ordination centre or similar entity providing administrative  services or other support to a group of companies which carry  on business in that State, as the case may be,
any provisions of this Convention conferring an exemption or a  reduction of tax shall not apply to the income of such company  and to the dividends paid by such company.
Article 28
Entry into force
1. Each of the Contracting States shall notify the other in  writing, through diplomatic channels, of the completion of the  procedures required by its law for the entry into force of  this Convention.
2. The Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day  after the receipt of the later of these notifications and  shall thereupon have effect:
a) in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or  credited on or after the first day of January of the calendar  year next following the date on which the Convention enters  into force;
b) in respect of other taxes on income, and taxes on capital,  on taxes chargeable for any tax year beginning on or after the  first day of January of the calendar year next following the  date on which the Convention enters into force.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, the  provisions of Article 24 (Mutual agreement procedure) and  Article 25 (Exchange of information) shall have effect from  the date of entry into force of this Convention, without  regard to the taxable period to which the matter relates.
4. The Convention between the Socialist Federal Republic of  Yugoslavia and the Kingdom of Sweden for the avoidance of  double taxation with respect to taxes on income and capital,  signed at Stockholm on 18th June 1980 ("the prior  Convention"), shall cease to have effect between Slovenia and  Sweden with respect to any tax on the date upon which this  Convention has effect with respect to that tax in accordance  with the provisions of paragraph 2.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 4 and  the provisions of Article 17, where, immediately before the  entry into force of this Convention, an individual was in  receipt of payments falling within paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of  Article 18 of the prior Convention, that individual may make  an election that the provisions of that Article, and not the  provisions of Article 17 of this Convention, shall continue to  apply to those payments. That election shall have effect for  the year in which it is made and for subsequent years unless  revoked by the individual. Where an election has been so  revoked, no further election under this paragraph may be made.
Article 29
Termination
This Convention shall remain in force until terminated by a  Contracting State. Either Contracting State may terminate the  Convention, through diplomatic channels, by giving written  notice of termination at least six months before the end of  any calendar year. In such case, the Convention shall cease to  have effect:
a) in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or  credited on or after the first day of January of the calendar  year next following the end of the six-month period;
b) in respect of other taxes on income, and taxes on capital,  on taxes chargeable for any tax year beginning on or after the  first day of January of the calendar year next following the  end of the six-month period.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized  thereto, have signed this Convention.
DONE at Brussels this 12th day of May 2021 in duplicate in the  English language.
For the Kingdom of Sweden
Lars Danielsson
For the republic of Slovenia
Iztok Jarc
Protocol
At the moment of signing the Convention between the Kingdom of  Sweden and the Republic of Slovenia for the elimination of  double taxation with respect to taxes on income and on capital  and the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance (hereinafter  referred to as "the Convention"), the Kingdom of Sweden and  the Republic of Slovenia have agreed that the following  provisions shall form an integral part of the Convention:
1. With reference to Article 2:
It is understood that should Sweden in the future introduce a  tax on capital, the Convention shall apply to such tax. In  such case double taxation shall be eliminated as follows:
Where a resident of Sweden owns capital which, in accordance  with the provisions of the Convention, may be taxed in  Slovenia, Sweden shall allow as a deduction from the tax on  the capital of that resident an amount equal to the capital  tax paid in Slovenia. Such deduction shall not, however,  exceed that part of the Swedish capital tax, as computed  before the deduction is given, which is attributable to the  capital which may be taxed in Slovenia.
2. With reference to Article 8:
With respect to profits derived by the air transport  consortium Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS), the provisions  of paragraph 1 of Article 8 of the Convention shall apply only  to such part of the profits as corresponds to the  participation held in that consortium by SAS Sverige AB, the  Swedish partner of SAS.
3. With reference to Article 11:
At the time of the signing of the Convention, the institutions  referred to in subparagraph b) of paragraph 3 of Article 11 of  the Convention are:
a) in Slovenia, the Slovenian Export and Development Bank (SID 
- Slovenska izvozna in razvojna banka);
b) in Sweden, The Swedish Export Credit Corporation (AB Svensk  Exportkredit) and The Swedish Export Credit Agency (Export-
kreditnämnden).
The competent authorities of the Contacting States may agree  on additional similar institutions to be covered by  subparagraph b) of paragraph 3 of Article 11 of the  Convention.
4. With reference to Article 13:
With respect to gains derived by the air transport consortium  Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS), the provisions of  paragraph 3 of Article 13 of the Convention shall apply only  to such part of the gains as corresponds to the participation  held in that consortium by SAS Sverige AB, the Swedish partner  of SAS.
5. With reference to Article 21:
With respect to capital owned by the air transport consortium  Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS), the provisions of  paragraph 3 of Article 21 of the Convention shall apply only  to such part of the capital as corresponds to the  participation held in that consortium by SAS Sverige AB, the  Swedish partner of SAS.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized  thereto, have signed this Protocol.
DONE at Brussels this 12th day of May 2021 in duplicate in the  English language.
For the Kingdom of Sweden
Lars Danielsson
For the republic of Slovenia
Iztok Jarc
(Översättning)
AVTAL MELLAN KONUNGARIKET SVERIGE OCH REPUBLIKEN SLOVENIEN FÖR  UNDVIKANDE AV DUBBELBESKATTNING BETRÄFFANDE SKATTER PÅ INKOMST  OCH PÅ FÖRMÖGENHET SAMT FÖRHINDRANDE AV SKATTEFLYKT OCH  SKATTEUNDANDRAGANDE
Konungariket Sverige och Republiken Slovenien,
som avser att ingå avtal för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning  beträffande skatter på inkomst och på förmögenhet, utan att  skapa förutsättningar för icke-beskattning eller minskad skatt  genom skatteflykt eller skatteundandragande (däri inbegripet  genom s.k. treaty-shopping, som syftar till att personer med  hemvist i en stat som inte är part till detta avtal indirekt  ska få förmåner enligt detta avtal),
har kommit överens om följande:
Artikel 1
Personer på vilka avtalet tillämpas
1. Detta avtal tillämpas på personer som har hemvist i en  avtalsslutande stat eller i båda avtalsslutande staterna.
2. Vid tillämpningen av detta avtal ska inkomst som förvärvas  av eller genom en person, som enligt skattelagstiftningen i  någon av de avtalsslutande staterna helt eller delvis är  föremål för delägarbeskattning, anses förvärvad av en person  med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat till den del som  inkomsten, enligt skattelagstiftningen i denna stat, behandlas  som inkomst hos en person med hemvist i den staten.  Bestämmelserna i denna punkt påverkar inte på något sätt en  avtalsslutande stats rätt att beskatta personer med hemvist i  denna stat.
Artikel 2
Skatter på vilka avtalet tillämpas
1. Detta avtal tillämpas på skatter på inkomst och på  förmögenhet som påförs för en avtalsslutande stats, dess  politiska underavdelningars eller lokala myndigheters räkning,  oberoende av det sätt på vilket skatterna tas ut.
2. Med skatter på inkomst och på förmögenhet förstås alla  skatter som tas ut på inkomst eller förmögenhet i dess helhet  eller på delar av inkomst eller förmögenhet, däri inbegripet  skatter på vinst på grund av överlåtelse av lös eller fast  egendom, samt skatter på värdestegring.
3. De för närvarande utgående skatter, på vilka detta avtal  tillämpas, är särskilt:
a) i Slovenien:
1) skatten på juridiska personers inkomst (davek od dohodkov  pravnih oseb),
2) skatten på fysiska personers inkomst (dohodnina), och
3) skatten på egendom (davek od premo?enja)
(i det följande benämnda "slovensk skatt"),
b) i Sverige:
1) den statliga inkomstskatten,
2) kupongskatten,
3) den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta,
4) den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta artister  m.fl., och
5) den kommunala inkomst-skatten
(i det följande benämnda "svensk skatt").
4. Avtalet tillämpas även på skatter av samma eller i huvudsak  likartat slag, som efter undertecknandet av avtalet tas ut vid  sidan av eller i stället för de skatter som anges i punkt 3.  De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna ska  meddela varandra de väsentliga ändringar som gjorts i deras  skattelagstiftning.
Artikel 3
Allmänna definitioner
1. Om inte sammanhanget föranleder annat, har vid tillämp-
ningen av detta avtal följande uttryck nedan angiven  betydelse:
a) "Slovenien" avser Republiken Slovenien och, när uttrycket  används i geografisk betydelse, avser Sloveniens territorium  och de havsområden över vilka Slovenien i överensstämmelse med  folkrättens regler utövar suveräna eller juridiska  rättigheter,
b) "Sverige" avser Konungariket Sverige och, när uttrycket  används i geografisk betydelse, innefattar Sveriges  territorium, Sveriges territorialhav och andra havsområden  över vilka Sverige i överensstämmelse med folkrättens regler  utövar suveräna rättigheter eller jurisdiktion,
c) "en avtalsslutande stat" och "den andra avtalsslutande  staten" avser Slovenien eller Sverige, beroende på  sammanhanget,
d) "person" inbegriper fysisk person, bolag och annan samman-
slutning,
e) "bolag" avser juridisk person eller annan som vid  beskattningen behandlas såsom juridisk person,
f) "företag" avser bedrivandet av varje form av rörelse,
g) "företag i en avtalsslutande stat" och "företag i den andra  avtalsslutande staten" avser företag som bedrivs av en person  med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat, respektive företag som  bedrivs av person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande  staten,
h) "internationell trafik" avser transport med skepp eller  luftfartyg, utom då skeppet eller luftfartyget används  uteslutande mellan platser i en avtalsslutande stat av ett  företag som inte är ett företag i denna stat,
i) "behörig myndighet" avser:
1) i Slovenien, Finansdepartementet eller dess befullmäktigade  ombud,
2) i Sverige, finansministern, dennes befullmäktigade ombud  eller den myndighet åt vilken uppdras att vara behörig  myndighet vid tillämpningen av detta avtal,
j) "medborgare", avser i förhållande till en avtalsslutande  stat:
1) fysisk person som är medborgare i denna avtalsslutande  stat, och
2) juridisk person, handelsbolag eller annan sammanslutning  enligt den lagstiftning som gäller i denna avtalsslutande  stat,
k) "rörelse" innefattar utövandet av fritt yrke och annan  självständig verksamhet.
2. Då en avtalsslutande stat tillämpar avtalet vid någon  tidpunkt anses, såvida inte sammanhanget föranleder annat,  varje uttryck som inte definierats i avtalet ha den betydelse  som uttrycket har vid denna tidpunkt enligt den statens  lagstiftning i fråga om sådana skatter på vilka avtalet  tillämpas, och den betydelse som uttrycket har enligt  tillämplig skattelagstiftning i denna stat äger företräde  framför den betydelse uttrycket ges i annan lagstiftning i  denna stat.
Artikel 4
Hemvist
1. Vid tillämpningen av detta avtal avser uttrycket "person  med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat" person som enligt  lagstiftningen i denna stat är skattskyldig där på grund av  domicil, bosättning, plats för företagsledning, eller annan  liknande omständighet och innefattar också denna stat, dess  offentligrättsliga organ eller institutioner, politiska  underavdelningar eller lokala myndigheter. Detta uttryck  inbegriper emellertid inte person som är skattskyldig i denna  stat endast för inkomst från källa i denna stat eller för  förmögenhet belägen där.
2. Då på grund av bestämmelserna i punkt 1 fysisk person har  hemvist i båda avtalsslutande staterna, bestäms hans hemvist  på följande sätt:
a) han anses ha hemvist endast i den stat där han har en  bostad som stadigvarande står till hans förfogande. Om han har  en sådan bostad i båda staterna, anses han ha hemvist endast i  den stat med vilken hans personliga och ekonomiska förbin-
delser är starkast (centrum för levnadsintressena),
b) om det inte kan avgöras i vilken stat han har centrum för  sina levnadsintressen eller om han inte i någondera staten har  en bostad som stadigvarande står till hans förfogande, anses  han ha hemvist endast i den stat där han stadigvarande vistas,
c) om han stadigvarande vistas i båda staterna eller om han  inte vistas stadigvarande i någon av dem, anses han ha hemvist  endast i den stat där han är medborgare,
d) om han är medborgare i båda staterna eller om han inte är  medborgare i någon av dem, ska de behöriga myndigheterna i de  avtalsslutande staterna avgöra frågan genom ömsesidig  överenskommelse.
3. Då på grund av bestämmelserna i punkt 1 annan person än  fysisk person har hemvist i båda avtalsslutande staterna, ska  de behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna genom  ömsesidig överenskommelse söka avgöra i vilken avtalsslutande  stat personen ska anses ha sitt hemvist vid tillämpningen av  detta avtal, med hänsyn till platsen för dess verkliga  ledning, den lagstiftning enligt vilken personen har bildats  och andra relevanta omständigheter. I avsaknad av sådan  överenskommelse ska personen inte vara berättigad till någon  nedsättning av eller befrielse från skatt enligt avtalet, utom  till den del och på det sätt som de behöriga myndigheterna i  de avtalsslutande staterna kommer överens om.
Artikel 5
Fast driftställe
1. Vid tillämpningen av detta avtal avser uttrycket "fast  driftställe" en stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet, från  vilken en verksamhet helt eller delvis bedrivs.
2. Uttrycket "fast driftställe" innefattar särskilt:
a) plats för företagsledning,
b) filial,
c) kontor,
d) fabrik,
e) verkstad, och
f) gruva, olje- eller gaskälla, stenbrott eller annan plats  för utvinning av naturtillgångar.
3. Plats för byggnads-, anläggnings-, monterings- eller  installationsverksamhet eller verksamhet som består av  övervakning i anslutning därtill utgör fast driftställe endast  om verksamheten pågår längre tid än tolv månader.
4. Utan hinder av föregående bestämmelser i denna artikel  anses uttrycket "fast driftställe" inte innefatta:
a) användningen av anordningar uteslutande för lagring,  utställning eller utlämnande av företaget tillhöriga varor,
b) innehavet av ett företaget tillhörigt varulager uteslutande  för lagring, utställning eller utlämnande,
c) innehavet av ett företaget tillhörigt varulager uteslutande  för bearbetning eller förädling genom ett annat företags  försorg,
d) innehavet av stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet  uteslutande för inköp av varor eller inhämtande av  upplysningar för företaget,
e) innehavet av stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet  uteslutande för att för företaget bedriva annan verksamhet av  förberedande eller biträdande art,
f) ett installationsprojekt som ett företag i en  avtalsslutande stat bedriver i den andra avtalsslutande staten  i samband med leverans av maskiner eller utrustning som har  tillverkats av företaget,
g) innehavet av stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet  uteslutande för någon kombination av verksamheter som anges i  a) till f) ovan, under förutsättning att hela den verksamhet  som bedrivs från den stadigvarande platsen för affärs-
verksamhet på grund av denna kombination är av förberedande  eller biträdande art.
5. Punkt 4 tillämpas inte på en stadigvarande plats för  affärsverksamhet som används eller innehas av ett företag, om  samma företag eller ett närstående företag bedriver  affärsverksamhet på samma plats eller på annan plats i samma  avtalsslutande stat och
a) denna plats eller annan plats utgör fast driftställe för  företaget eller det närstående företaget enligt bestämmelserna  i denna artikel, eller
b) den samlade verksamhet som bedrivs genom en kombination av  verksamheter av dessa två företag på samma plats, eller av  samma företag eller närstående företag på de två platserna,  inte är av förberedande eller biträdande art,
förutsatt att den affärsverksamhet som bedrivs av de två  företagen på samma plats, eller av samma företag eller  närstående företag på de två platserna, utgör kompletterande  funktioner som är en del av en sammanhängande  affärsverksamhet.
6. Om en person - som inte är en sådan oberoende representant  på vilken punkt 7 tillämpas - är verksam för ett företag samt  i en avtalsslutande stat har och där regelmässigt använder  fullmakt att sluta avtal i företagets namn, anses detta  företag - utan hinder av bestämmelserna i punkterna 1 och 2 -  ha fast driftställe i denna stat i fråga om varje verksamhet  som personen driver för företaget. Detta gäller dock inte, om  den verksamhet som personen bedriver är begränsad till sådan  som anges i punkt 4 och som, om den bedrevs från en stadig-
varande plats för affärsverksamhet, inte skulle göra denna  stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet till fast driftställe  enligt bestämmelserna i nämnda punkt.
7. Ett företag anses inte ha fast driftställe i en  avtalsslutande stat endast på den grund att företaget bedriver  affärsverksamhet i denna stat genom förmedling av mäklare,  kommissionär eller annan oberoende representant, under  förutsättning att sådan person därvid bedriver sin sedvanliga  affärsverksamhet. Om emellertid en sådan representant bedriver  sin verksamhet uteslutande eller nästan uteslutande för före-
tagets räkning och om det i fråga om handelsförbindelser eller  finansiella förbindelser mellan företaget och representanten  föreskrivs villkor som avviker från dem som skulle ha avtalats  mellan oberoende företag, ska representanten inte anses som en  sådan oberoende representant som avses i denna punkt.
8. Den omständigheten att ett bolag med hemvist i en avtals-
slutande stat kontrollerar eller kontrolleras av ett bolag med  hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten eller ett bolag som  bedriver affärsverksamhet i denna andra stat (antingen från  fast driftställe eller på annat sätt) medför inte i sig att  någotdera bolaget utgör fast driftställe för det andra.
9. Vid tillämpningen av denna artikel ska ett företag anses  närstående till ett företag om, med beaktande av alla  relevanta fakta och omständigheter, det ena kontrollerar det  andra eller båda företagen kontrolleras av samma personer  eller företag. Ett företag anses under alla omständigheter  vara närstående till ett företag om det ena direkt eller  indirekt innehar mer än 50 procent av ägarandelarna i det  andra (eller, i fråga om ett bolag, mer än 50 procent av det  sammanlagda röstetalet och värdet av bolagets andelar eller  aktiekapital) eller om en person eller ett annat företag  direkt eller indirekt innehar mer än 50 procent av  ägarandelarna (eller, i fråga om ett bolag, mer än 50 procent  av det sammanlagda röstetalet och värdet av bolagets andelar  eller aktiekapital) i båda företagen.
Artikel 6
Inkomst från fast egendom
1. Inkomst, som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat  förvärvar av fast egendom (däri inbegripet inkomst av lantbruk  eller skogsbruk) belägen i den andra avtalsslutande staten,  får beskattas i denna andra stat.
2. Uttrycket "fast egendom" har den betydelse som uttrycket  har enligt lagstiftningen i den avtalsslutande stat där  egendomen är belägen. Uttrycket inbegriper dock alltid  tillbehör till fast egendom, levande och döda inventarier i  lantbruk och skogsbruk, rättigheter på vilka bestämmelserna i  privaträtten om fast egendom tillämpas, byggnader,  nyttjanderätt till fast egendom samt rätt till föränderliga  eller fasta ersättningar för nyttjandet av eller rätten att  nyttja mineralförekomst, källa eller annan naturtillgång.  Skepp och luftfartyg anses inte vara fast egendom.
3. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 tillämpas på inkomst som förvärvas  genom omedelbart brukande, uthyrning eller annan användning av  fast egendom.
4. Bestämmelserna i punkterna 1 och 3 tillämpas även på  inkomst av fast egendom som tillhör företag.
Artikel 7
Inkomst av rörelse
1. Inkomst av rörelse, som företag i en avtalsslutande stat  förvärvar, beskattas endast i denna stat, såvida inte  företaget bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten  från där beläget fast driftställe. Om företaget bedriver  rörelse på nyss angivet sätt, får inkomst som är hänförlig  till det fasta driftstället i enlighet med bestämmelserna i  punkt 2 beskattas i den andra staten.
2. Vid tillämpningen av denna artikel och artikel 22 ska den  inkomst som i vardera avtalsslutande staten är hänförlig till  det fasta driftstället som avses i punkt 1 vara den inkomst  som det kan antas att driftstället skulle ha förvärvat, sär-
skilt med avseende på driftställets mellanhavanden med andra  delar av företaget, om det hade varit ett fristående företag  som bedrivit verksamhet av samma eller liknande slag under  samma eller liknande villkor, med beaktande av de funktioner  som utförts, tillgångar som använts och risker som företaget  har tagit genom det fasta driftstället och genom andra delar  av företaget.
3. I fall då en avtalsslutande stat, i enlighet med punkt 2,  justerar de inkomster som är hänförliga till ett fast  driftställe för ett företag med hemvist i en av de  avtalsslutande staterna och därmed beskattar företaget för  inkomst som har beskattats i den andra staten, ska denna andra  avtalsslutande stat, i den utsträckning som är nödvändigt för  att undvika dubbelbeskattning av dessa inkomster, genomföra  vederbörlig justering om den instämmer med den justering som  gjorts av den förstnämnda staten. Om den andra avtalsslutande  staten inte instämmer ska de avtalsslutande staterna söka un-
danröja eventuell dubbelbeskattning till följd av detta genom  ömsesidig överenskommelse.
4. Ingår i inkomst av rörelse, inkomst som behandlas särskilt  i andra artiklar av detta avtal, berörs bestämmelserna i dessa  artiklar inte av bestämmelserna i denna artikel.
Artikel 8
Internationell sjö- och luftfart
1. Inkomst som förvärvas av företag i en avtalsslutande stat  genom användningen av skepp eller luftfartyg i internationell  trafik beskattas endast i denna stat.
2. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 tillämpas även på inkomst som  förvärvas genom deltagande i en pool, ett gemensamt företag  eller en internationell driftsorganisation.
Artikel 9
Företag med intressegemenskap
1. I fall då:
a) ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat direkt eller indirekt  deltar i ledningen eller kontrollen av ett företag i den andra  avtalsslutande staten eller äger del i detta företags kapital,  eller
b) samma personer direkt eller indirekt deltar i ledningen  eller kontrollen av såväl ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat  som ett företag i den andra avtalsslutande staten eller äger  del i båda dessa företags kapital, iakttas följande.
Om mellan företagen i fråga om handelsförbindelser eller  finansiella förbindelser avtalas eller föreskrivs villkor, som  avviker från dem som skulle ha avtalats mellan av varandra  oberoende företag, får all inkomst, som utan sådana villkor  skulle ha tillkommit det ena företaget men som på grund av  villkoren i fråga inte tillkommit detta företag, inräknas i  detta företags inkomst och beskattas i överensstämmelse  därmed.
2. I fall då en avtalsslutande stat i inkomsten för ett  företag i denna stat inräknar - och i överensstämmelse därmed  beskattar - inkomst, för vilken ett företag i den andra  avtalsslutande staten beskattats i denna andra stat, samt den  sålunda inräknade inkomsten är sådan som skulle ha tillkommit  företag i den förstnämnda staten om de villkor som avtalats  mellan företagen hade varit sådana som skulle ha avtalats  mellan av varandra oberoende företag, ska denna andra stat  genomföra vederbörlig justering av det skattebelopp som  påförts inkomsten där, under förutsättning att denna andra  stat anser att justeringen är berättigad. Vid sådan justering  iakttas övriga bestämmelser i detta avtal och de behöriga  myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna ska vid behov  överlägga med varandra.
Artikel 10
Utdelning
1. Utdelning från bolag med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat  till person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten får  beskattas i denna andra stat.
2. Utdelning från bolag med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat  får emellertid beskattas även i den staten, enligt  lagstiftningen i denna stat, men om den som har rätt till  utdelningen har hemvist den andra avtalsslutande staten får  skatten inte överstiga:
a) 5 procent av utdelningens bruttobelopp om den som har rätt  till utdelningen är ett bolag som direkt innehar minst 
25 procent av kapitalet eller direkt kontrollerar minst 25  procent av röstetalet i det utdelande bolaget under en period  om 365 dagar som innefattar den dag då utdelningen betalas ut 
(vid beräkningen av denna period beaktas inte förändringar i  ägande som direkt följer av en omstrukturering, såsom fusion  eller fission av det bolag som innehar aktierna eller betalar  utdelningen),
b) 15 procent av utdelningens bruttobelopp i övriga fall.
Denna punkt berör inte bolagets beskattning för den vinst av  vilken utdelningen betalas.
3. Med uttrycket "utdelning" förstås i denna artikel inkomst  av aktier eller andra rättigheter, som inte är fordringar, med  rätt till andel i vinst, samt inkomst av andra andelar i bo-
lag, som enligt lagstiftningen i den stat där det utdelande  bolaget har hemvist vid beskattningen behandlas på samma sätt  som inkomst av aktier.
4. Bestämmelserna i punkterna 1 och 2 tillämpas inte, om den  som har rätt till utdelningen har hemvist i en avtalsslutande  stat och bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten,  där bolaget som betalar utdelningen har hemvist, från där  beläget fast driftställe, samt den andel på grund av vilken  utdelningen betalas äger verkligt samband med det fasta  driftstället. I sådant fall tillämpas bestämmelserna i  artikel 7.
5. Om bolag med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar in-
komst från den andra avtalsslutande staten, får denna andra  stat inte beskatta utdelning som bolaget betalar, utom i den  mån utdelningen betalas till person med hemvist i denna andra  stat eller i den mån den andel på grund av vilken utdelningen  betalas äger verkligt samband med fast driftställe i denna  andra stat, och ej heller på bolagets icke utdelade vinst ta  ut en skatt som utgår på bolagets icke utdelade vinst, även om  utdelningen eller den icke utdelade vinsten helt eller delvis  utgörs av inkomst som uppkommit i denna andra stat.
Artikel 11
Ränta
1. Ränta som härrör från en avtalsslutande stat och som  betalas till en person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande  staten, får beskattas i denna andra stat.
2. Ränta får emellertid beskattas även i den avtalsslutande  stat från vilken den härrör, enligt lagstiftningen i denna  stat, men om den som har rätt till räntan har hemvist i den  andra avtalsslutande staten får skatten inte överstiga 
5 procent av räntans bruttobelopp.
3. Ränta som anges i punkt 1 beskattas, utan hinder av bestäm-
melserna i punkt 2, endast i den avtalsslutande stat där den  som har rätt till räntan har hemvist om någon av följande  förutsättningar är uppfylld:
a) den som betalar eller tar emot räntan är en avtalsslutande  stat, ett offentligrättsligt organ eller institution, en  politisk underavdelning eller lokal myndighet eller central-
banken i en avtalsslutande stat,
b) räntan betalas på grund av ett lån givet, garanterat eller  försäkrat, eller kredit given, garanterad eller försäkrad, av  en institution i den andra avtalsslutande staten som har till  syfte att främja export eller utveckling,
c) räntan betalas med anledning av skuld som uppkommit vid  försäljning på kredit av varor eller industriell, kommersiell  eller vetenskaplig utrustning till ett företag i den andra  avtalsslutande staten.
4. Med uttrycket "ränta" förstås i denna artikel inkomst av  varje slags fordran, antingen den säkerställts genom  inteckning i fast egendom eller inte och antingen den medför  rätt till andel i gäldenärens vinst eller inte. Uttrycket  avser särskilt inkomst av värdepapper som utfärdats av staten  och inkomst av obligationer eller debentures, däri inbegripet  agiobelopp och vinster som hänför sig till sådana värdepapper,  obligationer eller debentures. Straffavgift på grund av sen  betalning anses inte som ränta vid tillämpningen av denna  artikel.
5. Bestämmelserna i punkterna 1, 2 och 3 tillämpas inte om den  som har rätt till räntan har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat  och bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten, från  vilken räntan härrör, från där beläget fast driftställe, samt  den fordran för vilken räntan betalas äger verkligt samband  med det fasta driftstället. I sådant fall tillämpas  bestämmelserna i artikel 7.
6. Ränta anses härröra från en avtalsslutande stat om  utbetalaren är en person med hemvist i denna stat. Om  emellertid den person som betalar räntan, antingen han har  hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat eller inte, i en  avtalsslutande stat har ett fast driftställe i samband med  vilket den skuld uppkommit för vilken räntan betalas, och  räntan belastar det fasta driftstället, anses räntan härröra  från den stat där det fasta driftstället finns.
7. Då på grund av särskilda förbindelser mellan utbetalaren  och den som har rätt till räntan eller mellan dem båda och  annan person, räntebeloppet, med hänsyn till den fordran för  vilken räntan betalas, överstiger det belopp som skulle ha  avtalats mellan utbetalaren och den som har rätt till räntan  om sådana förbindelser inte förelegat, tillämpas  bestämmelserna i denna artikel endast på sistnämnda belopp. I  sådant fall beskattas överskjutande belopp enligt  lagstiftningen i vardera avtalsslutande staten med iakttagande  av övriga bestämmelser i detta avtal.
Artikel 12
Royalty
1. Royalty som härrör från en avtalsslutande stat och som  betalas till en person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande  staten, får beskattas i denna andra stat.
2. Royalty får emellertid beskattas även i den avtalsslutande  stat från vilken den härrör, enligt lagstiftningen i denna  stat, men om den som har rätt till räntan har hemvist i den  andra avtalsslutande staten får skatten inte överstiga 
5 procent av royaltyns bruttobelopp.
3. Med uttrycket "royalty" för-stås i denna artikel varje  slags betalning som tas emot såsom ersättning för nyttjandet  av eller för rätten att nyttja upphovsrätt till litterärt,  konstnärligt eller vetenskapligt verk, häri inbegripet bio-
graffilm, patent, varumärke, mönster eller modell, ritning,  hemligt recept eller hemlig tillverkningsmetod samt för  upplysning om erfarenhetsrön av industriell, kommersiell eller  vetenskaplig natur.
4. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 och 2 tillämpas inte om den som  har rätt till royaltyn har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat  och bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten, från  vilken royaltyn härrör, från där beläget fast driftställe,  samt den rättighet eller egendom i fråga om vilken royaltyn  betalas äger verkligt samband med det fasta driftstället. I  sådant fall tillämpas bestämmelserna i artikel 7.
5. Royalty anses härröra från en avtalsslutande stat om  utbetalaren är en person med hemvist i denna stat. Om,  emellertid, den person som betalar royaltyn, antingen han har  hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat eller inte, i en  avtalsslutande stat har fast driftställe i samband varmed  skyldigheten att betala royaltyn uppkommit, och royaltyn  belastar det fasta driftstället, anses royaltyn härröra från  den stat där det fasta driftstället finns.
6. Då på grund av särskilda förbindelser mellan utbetalaren  och den som har rätt till royaltyn eller mellan dem båda och  annan person, royaltybeloppet, med hänsyn till det nyttjande,  den rättighet eller den upplysning för vilken royaltyn  betalas, överstiger det belopp som skulle ha avtalats mellan  utbetalaren och den som har rätt till royaltyn om sådana  förbindelser inte förelegat, tillämpas bestämmelserna i denna  artikel endast på sistnämnda belopp. I sådant fall beskattas  överskjutande belopp enligt lagstiftningen i vardera  avtalsslutande staten med iakttagande av övriga bestämmelser i  detta avtal.
Artikel 13
Kapitalvinst
1. Vinst, som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat  förvärvar på grund av överlåtelse av sådan fast egendom som  avses i artikel 6 och som är belägen i den andra avtals-
slutande staten, får beskattas i denna andra stat.
2. Vinst, som ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar  på grund av överlåtelse av lös egendom som utgör del av  rörelsetillgångarna i fast driftställe, vilket företaget har i  den andra avtalsslutande staten, får beskattas i denna andra  stat. Detsamma gäller vinst på grund av överlåtelse av sådant  fast driftställe (för sig eller tillsammans med hela  företaget).
3. Vinst, som ett företag i avtalsslutande stat förvärvar på  grund av överlåtelse av skepp eller luftfartyg som används i  internationell trafik eller lös egendom som är hänförlig till  användningen av sådana skepp eller luftfartyg, beskattas  endast i denna stat.
4. Vinst, som en person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat  förvärvar på grund av överlåtelse av andelar eller liknande  rättigheter, såsom andelar i handelsbolag eller stiftelse 
("trust"), vilkas värde till mer än 50 procent, direkt eller  indirekt, kan hänföras till sådan fast egendom - såsom  definierad i artikel 6 - som är belägen i den andra avtals-
slutande staten, får beskattas i denna andra stat.
5. Vinst på grund av överlåtelse av annan egendom än sådan som  avses i punkterna 1, 2, 3 och 4 beskattas endast i den  avtalsslutande stat där överlåtaren har hemvist.
6. Vinst på grund av överlåtelse av tillgång, som förvärvas av  en fysisk person som har haft hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat  och som fått hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten, får -  utan hinder av bestämmelserna i punkt 5 - beskattas i den  förstnämnda staten, om överlåtelsen sker vid något tillfälle  under de tio år som följer närmast efter den tidpunkt då den  fysiska personen har upphört att ha hemvist i den förstnämnda  staten. Sådan vinst ska dock inte inkludera eventuell vinst  som har uppkommit under den tid personen har haft hemvist i  den andra avtalsslutande staten.
Artikel 14
Inkomst av anställning
1. Om inte bestämmelserna i artiklarna 15, 17 och 18  föranleder annat, beskattas lön och annan liknande ersättning  som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat uppbär på  grund av anställning, endast i denna stat, såvida inte arbetet  utförs i den andra avtalsslutande staten. Om arbetet utförs i  denna andra stat, får ersättning som uppbärs för arbetet  beskattas där.
2. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i punkt 1 beskattas  ersättning, som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat  uppbär för arbete i den andra avtalsslutande staten, endast i  den förstnämnda staten, om:
a) mottagaren vistas i den andra staten under tidsperiod eller  tidsperioder som sammanlagt inte överstiger 183 dagar under en  tolvmånadersperiod som börjar eller slutar under  beskattningsåret i fråga,
b) ersättningen betalas av arbetsgivare som inte har hemvist i  den andra staten eller på dennes vägnar, och
c) ersättningen inte belastar fast driftställe som  arbetsgivaren har i den andra staten.
3. Utan hinder av föregående bestämmelser i denna artikel och  artikel 1 ska ersättning som en fysisk person - oavsett om  personen har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat eller inte -  uppbär för arbete i anställning som medlem i besättningen  ombord på skepp eller luftfartyg som ett företag i en  avtalsslutande stat använder i internationell trafik, beskat-
tas endast i denna stat. I fall då sådan ersättning emellertid  uppbärs av en person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande  staten, får ersättningen beskattas även i denna andra stat.
Artikel 15
Styrelsearvode
Styrelsearvode och annan liknande ersättning, som person med  hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat uppbär i egenskap av medlem i  styrelse eller annat liknande organ i bolag med hemvist i den  andra avtalsslutande staten, får beskattas i denna andra stat.
Artikel 16
Artister och sportutövare
1. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i artikel 14 får inkomst, som  person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar genom  sin personliga verksamhet i den andra avtalsslutande staten i  egenskap av artist, såsom teater- eller filmskådespelare,  radio- eller televisionsartist eller musiker, eller i egenskap  av sportutövare, beskattas i denna andra stat.
2. I fall då inkomst genom personlig verksamhet som artist  eller sportutövare bedriver i denna egenskap inte tillfaller  artisten eller sportutövaren själv utan annan person, får  denna inkomst, utan hinder av bestämmelserna i artikel 14,  beskattas i den avtalsslutande stat där artisten eller  sportutövaren bedriver verksamheten.
Artikel 17
Pension, livränta och liknande betalningar
1. Pension och annan liknande ersättning (inklusive livränta)  som härrör från en avtalsslutande stat samt utbetalningar  enligt socialförsäkringslagstiftningen i en avtalsslutande  stat, som betalas till en person med hemvist i den andra  avtalsslutande staten, får beskattas i den förstnämnda staten.
2. Med uttrycket "livränta" förstås ett fastställt belopp, som  utbetalas periodiskt på fastställda tider under en persons  livstid eller under angiven eller fastställbar tidsperiod och  som utgår på grund av förpliktelse att verkställa dessa  utbetalningar som ersättning för däremot fullt svarande  vederlag i pengar eller pengars värde.
Artikel 18
Offentlig tjänst
1. a) Lön och annan liknande ersättning, med undantag för  sådan inkomst som avses i artikel 17, som betalas av en  avtalsslutande stat, en av dess politiska underavdelningar  eller lokala myndigheter till fysisk person på grund av arbete  som utförts i denna stats, underavdelnings eller myndighets  tjänst, beskattas endast i denna stat.
b) Sådan lön och annan liknande ersättning beskattas  emellertid endast i den andra avtalsslutande staten om arbetet  utförs i denna andra stat och personen i fråga har hemvist i  denna stat och:
1) är medborgare i denna stat, eller
2) inte fick hemvist i denna stat uteslutande för att utföra  arbetet,
2. Bestämmelserna i artiklarna 14, 15 och 16 tillämpas på lön  och annan liknande ersättning som betalas på grund av arbete  som utförts i samband med rörelse som bedrivs av en  avtalsslutande stat, en av dess politiska underavdelningar  eller lokala myndigheter.
Artikel 19
Studerande
1. Studerande eller affärspraktikant som har eller omedelbart  före vistelsen i en avtalsslutande stat hade hemvist i den  andra avtalsslutande staten och som vistas i den förstnämnda  staten uteslutande för sin utbildning eller praktik, beskattas  inte i denna stat för belopp som han erhåller för sitt  uppehälle, sin undervisning eller praktik, om beloppen härrör  från källa utanför denna stat.
2. Såvitt avser bidrag, stipendier och liknande ersättningar,  samt ersättning för anställning som inte omfattas av punkt 1,  ska en studerande eller affärspraktikant som avses i nämnda  punkt, under tiden för sådan utbildning eller praktik,  dessutom vara berättigad till samma befrielser, lättnader  eller förmåner vid beskattningen som gäller för en person med  hemvist i den stat där den studerande eller affärspraktikanten  vistas.
Artikel 20
Annan inkomst
1. Inkomst som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat  förvärvar och som inte behandlas i föregående artiklar av  detta avtal beskattas endast i denna stat, oavsett varifrån  inkomsten härrör.
2. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 tillämpas inte på inkomst, med un-
dantag för inkomst av fast egendom som avses i artikel 6  punkt 2, om mottagaren av inkomsten har hemvist i en  avtalsslutande stat och bedriver rörelse i den andra avtals-
slutande staten från där beläget fast driftställe samt den  rättighet eller egendom i fråga om vilken inkomsten betalas  äger verkligt samband med det fasta driftstället. I sådant  fall tillämpas bestämmelserna i artikel 7.
Artikel 21
Förmögenhet
1. Förmögenhet bestående av sådan fast egendom som avses i  artikel 6, vilken person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat  innehar och vilken är belägen i den andra avtalsslutande  staten får beskattas i denna andra stat.
2. Förmögenhet bestående av lös egendom, som utgör del av  rörelsetillgångarna i fast driftställe som en person med  hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat har i den andra avtals-
slutande staten, får beskattas i denna andra stat.
3. Förmögenhet bestående av skepp eller luftfartyg som används  i internationell trafik av ett företag i en avtalsslutande  stat och av lös egendom som är hänförlig till användningen av  sådana skepp och luftfartyg, beskattas endast i denna stat.
4. Alla andra slag av förmögenhet som en person med hemvist i  en avtalsslutande stat innehar, beskattas endast i denna stat.
Artikel 22
Undvikande av dubbelbeskattning
Dubbelbeskattning ska undanröjas på följande sätt:
1. I Slovenien:
a) Om en person med hemvist i Slovenien förvärvar inkomst  eller innehar förmögenhet som enligt bestämmelserna i detta  avtal får beskattas i Sverige, ska Slovenien:
1) från personens skatt på inkomsten avräkna ett belopp  motsvarande den skatt som erlagts i Sverige på inkomsten,
2) från personens skatt på förmögenheten avräkna ett belopp  motsvarande den skatt som erlagts i Sverige på förmögenheten.
Avräkningsbeloppet ska emellertid inte i något fall överstiga  den del av inkomstskatten eller förmögenhetsskatten, beräknad  utan sådan avräkning, som belöper på den inkomst eller  förmögenhet som får beskattas i Sverige.
b) I fall då en person med hemvist i Slovenien förvärvar  inkomst eller innehar förmögenhet som i enlighet med  bestämmelserna i detta avtal är undantagen från beskattning i  Slovenien, får Slovenien vid fastställande av skatten på övrig  inkomst eller förmögenhet beakta den inkomst eller förmögenhet  som undantagits från beskattning i Slovenien.
2. I Sverige:
a) Om en person med hemvist i Sverige förvärvar inkomst som  enligt lagstiftning i Slovenien och i enlighet med  bestämmelserna i detta avtal får beskattas i Slovenien, ska  Sverige - med beaktande av bestämmelserna i svensk  lagstiftning beträffande avräkning av utländsk skatt (även i  den lydelse de framledes kan få genom att ändras utan att den  allmänna princip som anges här ändras) - från den svenska  skatten på inkomsten avräkna ett belopp motsvarande den skatt  i Slovenien som erlagts på inkomsten.
b) Om en person med hemvist i Sverige förvärvar inkomst som i  enlighet med detta avtal beskattas endast i Slovenien, får  Sverige, vid fastställande av skattesatsen för svensk  progressiv skatt beakta den inkomst som ska beskattas endast i  Slovenien.
c) Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i punkt a) i denna punkt är  utdelning från bolag med hemvist i Slovenien till bolag med  hemvist i Sverige undantagen från svensk skatt enligt  bestämmelserna i svensk lag om skattebefrielse för utdelning  som erhålles av svenska bolag från dotterbolag utomlands.
Artikel 23
Förbud mot diskriminering
1. Medborgare i en avtals-slutande stat ska inte i den andra  avtalsslutande staten bli föremål för beskattning eller därmed  sammanhängande krav som är av annat slag eller mer tyngande än  den beskattning och därmed sammanhängande krav som medborgare  i denna andra avtalsslutande stat under samma förhållanden,  särskilt såvitt avser hemvist, är eller kan bli underkastade.  Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i artikel 1 tillämpas denna  bestämmelse även på personer som inte har hemvist i en av-
talsslutande stat eller i båda avtalsslutande staterna.
2. Beskattningen av fast driftställe, som ett företag i en  avtalsslutande stat har i den andra avtalsslutande staten, ska  i denna andra stat inte vara mindre fördelaktig än  beskattningen av företag i denna andra stat, som bedriver  verksamhet av samma slag. Denna bestämmelse anses inte medföra  skyldighet för en avtalsslutande stat att medge personer med  hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten sådant personligt  avdrag vid beskattningen, sådan skattebefrielse eller  skattenedsättning på grund av civilstånd eller  försörjningsplikt mot familj som medges personer med hemvist i  den egna staten.
3. Utom i de fall då bestämmelserna i artikel 9 punkt 1,  artikel 11 punkt 7 eller artikel 12 punkt 6 tillämpas, är  ränta, royalty och annan betalning från ett företag i en  avtalsslutande stat till en person med hemvist i den andra  avtalsslutande staten avdragsgilla vid bestämmandet av den  beskattningsbara inkomsten för sådant företag på samma villkor  som betalning till person med hemvist i den förstnämnda  staten. På samma sätt är skuld som ett företag i en  avtalsslutande stat har till en person med hemvist i den andra  avtalsslutande staten avdragsgill vid bestämmandet av sådant  företags beskattningsbara förmögenhet på samma villkor som  skuld till person med hemvist i den förstnämnda staten.
4. Företag i en avtalsslutande stat, vars kapital helt eller  delvis ägs eller kontrolleras, direkt eller indirekt, av en  eller flera personer med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande  staten, ska inte i den förstnämnda staten bli föremål för  beskattning eller därmed sammanhängande krav som är av annat  slag eller mer tyngande än den beskattning och därmed samman-
hängande krav som annat liknande företag i den förstnämnda  staten är eller kan bli underkastat.
5. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i artikel 2 tillämpas  bestämmelserna i denna artikel på skatter av varje slag och  beskaffenhet.
Artikel 24
Förfarandet vid ömsesidig överenskommelse
1. Om en person anser att en avtalsslutande stat eller båda  avtalsslutande staterna vidtagit åtgärder som för honom medför  eller kommer att medföra beskattning som strider mot  bestämmelserna i detta avtal, kan han, utan att detta påverkar  hans rätt att använda sig av de rättsmedel som finns i dessa  staters interna rättsordning, lägga fram saken för den  behöriga myndigheten i den avtalsslutande stat där personen  har hemvist, eller om fråga är om tillämpning av artikel 23  punkt 1, i den avtalsslutande stat där han är medborgare.  Saken ska läggas fram inom tre år från den tidpunkt då  personen i fråga fick vetskap om den åtgärd som givit upphov  till beskattning som strider mot bestämmelserna i avtalet.
2. Om den behöriga myndigheten finner invändningen grundad men  inte själv kan få till stånd en tillfredsställande lösning,  ska myndigheten söka lösa frågan genom ömsesidig  överenskommelse med den behöriga myndigheten i den andra  avtalsslutande staten i syfte att undvika beskattning som  strider mot avtalet. Överenskommelse som träffats ska  genomföras utan hinder av tidsgränser i de avtalsslutande  staternas interna lagstiftning.
3. De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna ska  genom ömsesidig överenskommelse söka avgöra svårigheter eller  tvivelsmål som uppkommer i fråga om tolkningen eller  tillämpningen av avtalet. De kan även överlägga i syfte att  undanröja dubbelbeskattning i fall som inte omfattas av  avtalet.
4. De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna kan  träda i direkt förbindelse med varandra i syfte att träffa  överenskommelse i de fall som angivits i föregående punkter.
Artikel 25
Utbyte av upplysningar
1. De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna ska  utbyta sådana upplysningar som kan antas vara relevanta vid  tillämpningen av bestämmelserna i detta avtal eller för  administration eller verkställighet av intern lagstiftning i  fråga om skatter av varje slag och beskaffenhet som tas ut för  de avtalsslutande staterna eller för deras politiska  underavdelningar eller lokala myndigheter, om beskattningen  enligt denna lagstiftning inte strider mot avtalet. Utbytet av  upplysningar begränsas inte av artiklarna 1 och 2.
2. Upplysningar som en avtals-slutande stat tagit emot enligt  punkt 1 ska behandlas som hemliga på samma sätt som  upplysningar som erhållits enligt den interna lagstiftningen i  denna stat och får yppas endast för personer eller myndigheter 
(däri inbegripet domstolar och förvaltningsorgan) som  fastställer, uppbär eller driver in de skatter som åsyftas i  punkt 1 eller handlägger åtal eller överklagande i fråga om  dessa skatter eller som utövar tillsyn över nämnda  verksamheter. Dessa personer eller myndigheter får använda  upplysningar bara för sådana ändamål. De får yppa upplys-
ningarna vid offentlig rättegång eller i domstolsavgöranden.  Utan hinder av ovanstående får upplysningar som en  avtalsslutande stat mottagit användas för andra ändamål när  sådana upplysningar får användas för sådana andra ändamål  enligt lagstiftningen i båda avtalsslutande staterna och den  behöriga myndigheten i den avtalsslutande stat som lämnat  upplysningarna tillåtit sådant användande.
3. Bestämmelserna i punkterna 1 och 2 medför inte skyldighet  för en avtalsslutande stat att:
a) vidta förvaltningsåtgärder som avviker från lagstiftning  och administrativ praxis i denna avtalsslutande stat eller i  den andra avtalsslutande staten,
b) lämna upplysningar som inte är tillgängliga enligt  lagstiftning eller sedvanlig administrativ praxis i denna  avtalsslutande stat eller i den andra avtalsslutande staten,
c) lämna upplysningar som skulle röja affärshemlighet,  industri-, handels- eller yrkeshemlighet eller i  näringsverksamhet nyttjat förfaringssätt eller upplysningar,  vilkas överlämnande skulle strida mot allmänna hänsyn (ordre  public).
4. Då en avtalsslutande stat begär upplysningar enligt denna  artikel ska den andra avtalsslutande staten använda de medel  som denna stat förfogar över för att inhämta de begärda  upplysningarna, även om denna andra stat inte har behov av  upplysningarna för sina egna beskattningsändamål.  Förpliktelsen i föregående mening begränsas av bestämmelserna  i punkt 3, men detta medför inte en rätt för en avtalsslutande  stat att vägra lämna upplysningar uteslutande därför att denna  stat inte har något eget intresse av sådana upplysningar.
5. Bestämmelserna i punkt 3 medför inte rätt för en avtals-
slutande stat att vägra att lämna upplysningar uteslutande  därför att upplysningarna innehas av en bank, annan finansiell  institution, ombud, representant eller förvaltare eller därför  att upplysningarna gäller äganderätt i en person.
Artikel 26
Medlemmar av diplomatisk beskickning och konsulat
Bestämmelserna i detta avtal berör inte de privilegier vid be-
skattningen som enligt folkrättens allmänna regler eller  bestämmelser i särskilda överenskommelser tillkommer medlemmar  av diplomatisk beskickning och konsulat.
Artikel 27
Begränsning av förmåner
1. Utan hinder av övriga bestämmelser i detta avtal ska en  förmån enligt avtalet inte ges i fråga om en inkomst eller  förmögenhetstillgång, om det med hänsyn till alla relevanta  fakta och omständigheter rimligen kan antas att ett av de  huvudsakliga syftena med det arrangemang eller den transaktion  som direkt eller indirekt resulterade i förmånen var att få  förmånen, såvida det inte fastställs att det under omständig-
heterna är förenligt med de relevanta bestämmelsernas ändamål  och syfte att förmånen ges.
2. Utan hinder av övriga bestämmelser i detta avtal, ska för  det fall
a) bolag med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat huvudsakligen  förvärvar sina inkomster från andra stater
1) från bank-, sjöfarts-, finans-, eller  försäkringsverksamhet, eller
2) genom att vara huvudkontor, co-ordination centre eller en  liknande enhet som tillhandahåller administrativa eller andra  tjänster till en grupp av bolag som bedriver rörelse  huvudsakligen i andra stater; och
b) sådan inkomst beskattas väsentligt lägre enligt  lagstiftningen i denna stat än inkomster från liknande  verksamhet som bedrivs inom denna stat eller genom att vara  huvudkontor, co-ordination centre eller liknande enhet som  tillhandahåller administrativa eller andra tjänster till en  grupp av bolag som bedriver rörelse i denna stat,
bestämmelserna i detta avtal som medför undantag från eller  begränsning av beskattningen inte tillämpas på inkomst som  sådant bolag förvärvar och inte heller på utdelning som  betalas av sådant bolag.
Artikel 28
Ikraftträdande
1. De avtalsslutande staterna ska skriftligen på diplomatisk  väg underrätta varandra när de åtgärder vidtagits som enligt  respektive stats lagstiftning krävs för att detta avtal ska  träda i kraft.
2. Avtalet träder i kraft den trettionde dagen efter det att  den sista av dessa underrättelser tagits emot och ska därefter  tillämpas:
a) i fråga om källskatter, på belopp som betalas eller  tillgodoförs den 1 januari det kalenderår som följer närmast  efter den dag då avtalet träder i kraft eller senare,
b) i fråga om andra skatter på inkomst och på förmögenhet, på  skatt som påförs för beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari  det kalenderår som följer närmast efter den dag då avtalet  träder i kraft eller senare.
3. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i punkt 2 ska bestämmelserna  i artikel 24 (Förfarandet vid ömsesidig överenskommelse) och  artikel 25 (Utbyte av upplysningar) tillämpas från och med den  dag då avtalet träder i kraft, oavsett vilket beskattningsår  ärendet gäller.
4. Avtalet mellan den Socialistiska Federala Republiken Jugo-
slavien och Konungariket Sverige för att undvika  dubbelbeskattning beträffande skatter på inkomst och  förmögenhet, undertecknat i Stockholm den 18 juni 1980 ("det  tidigare avtalet") ska upphöra att tillämpas mellan Slovenien  och Sverige med avseende på varje skatt från och med den dag  då detta avtal enligt punkt 2 i denna artikel ska tillämpas  avseende den aktuella skatten.
5. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i punkterna 2 och 4 och  bestämmelserna i artikel 17, får en fysisk person som  omedelbart före avtalets ikraftträdande var mottagare av  sådana utbetalningar som omfattas av artikel 18 punkterna 1, 2  och 3 i det tidigare avtalet, välja att bestämmelserna i  sistnämnda artiklar och inte bestämmelserna i artikel 17 i  detta avtal, fortfarande ska tillämpas på dessa utbetalningar.  Detta val ska gälla för det år under vilket valet görs och  varje därpå följande år under förutsättning att valet inte har  återkallats av personen. När ett val har återkallats får inte  ett nytt val göras enligt denna punkt.
Artikel 29
Upphörande
Detta avtal förblir i kraft till dess att det sägs upp av en  avtalsslutande stat. Vardera avtalsslutande staten kan på  diplomatisk väg skriftligen säga upp avtalet genom under-
rättelse härom minst sex månader före utgången av något  kalenderår. I händelse av sådan uppsägning upphör avtalet att  gälla:
a) i fråga om källskatter, på belopp som betalas eller  tillgodoförs den 1 januari det kalenderår som följer närmast  efter utgången av sexmånadersperioden eller senare,
b) i fråga om andra skatter på inkomst och på förmögenhet, på  skatt som påförs för beskattningsår som börjar 1 januari det  kalenderår som följer närmast efter utgången av  sexmånadersperioden eller senare.
Till bekräftelse härav har undertecknade, därtill  vederbörligen bemyndigade, undertecknat detta avtal.
Som skedde i Bryssel den 12 maj 2021, i två exemplar på  engelska språket.
För Konungariket Sverige
Lars Danielsson
För Republiken Slovenien
Iztok Jarc
Protokoll
Vid undertecknandet av avtalet mellan Konungariket Sverige och  Republiken Slovenien för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning  beträffande skatter på inkomst och på förmögenhet samt  förhindrande av skatteflykt och skatteundandragande (i det  följande benämnt "avtalet") har Konungariket Sverige och  Republiken Slovenien kommit överens om att följande  bestämmelser ska utgöra en integrerande del av avtalet:
1. Avseende artikel 2:
Det är förstått att för det fallet Sverige i framtiden inför  förmögenhetsskatt, så ska avtalet vara tillämpligt på denna  skatt. Dubbelbeskattning ska i så fall undanröjas enligt  följande:
Om en person med hemvist i Sverige innehar förmögenhet, som  enligt bestämmelserna i detta avtal får beskattas i Slovenien,  ska Sverige från skatten på denna persons förmögenhet avräkna  ett belopp motsvarande den förmögenhetsskatt som erlagts i  Slovenien. Avräkningsbeloppet ska emellertid inte överstiga  den del av den svenska förmögenhetsskatten, beräknad utan  sådan avräkning, som belöper på den förmögenhet som får  beskattas i Slovenien.
2. Avseende artikel 8:
Bestämmelserna i artikel 8 punkt 1 i avtalet ska beträffande  inkomst som förvärvas av luftfartskonsortiet Scandinavian  Airlines System (SAS) endast tillämpas i fråga om den del av  inkomsten som motsvarar den andel i konsortiet som innehas av  SAS Sverige AB, den svenske delägaren i SAS.
3. Avseende artikel 11:
Vid undertecknande av avtalet är de institutioner som avses i  artikel 11 punkt 3 b) i avtalet följande:
a) i Slovenien, Slovenska export-och utvecklingsbanken (SID -  Slovenska izvozna in razvojna banka),
b) i Sverige, AB Svensk Exportkredit och Exportkreditnämnden.
De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna kan  komma överens om att ytterligare liknande institutioner ska  omfattas av artikel 11 punkt 3 b) i avtalet.
4. Avseende artikel 13:
Bestämmelserna i artikel 13 punkt 3 i avtalet ska beträffande  inkomst som förvärvas av luftfartskonsortiet Scandinavian  Airlines System (SAS) endast tillämpas i fråga om den del av  inkomsten som motsvarar den andel i konsortiet som innehas av  SAS Sverige AB, den svenske delägaren i SAS.
5. Avseende artikel 21:
Bestämmelserna i artikel 21 punkt 3 i avtalet ska beträffande  förmögenhet som innehas av luftfartskonsortiet Scandinavian  Airlines System (SAS) endast tillämpas i fråga om den del av  förmögenheten som motsvarar den andel i konsortiet som innehas  av SAS Sverige AB, den svenske delägaren i SAS.
Till bekräftelse härav har undertecknade, därtill  vederbörligen bemyndigade, undertecknat detta protokoll.
Som skedde i Bryssel den 12 maj 2021, i två exemplar på  engelska språket.
För Konungariket Sverige
Lars Danielsson
För Republiken Slovenien
Iztok Jarc
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.