Title: Lag (1969:12) om internationell vägtransport
SFS Number: Svensk författningssamling 1969:12
URL: https://www.riksdagen.se/sv/dokument-och-lagar/dokument/svensk-forfattningssamling/lag-196912-om-internationell-vagtransport_sfs-1969-12/
Source Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfst?bet=1969:12
Amendment Register Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfsr?bet=1969:12
Ministry/Authority: Justitiedepartementet L3
Issued: 1969-01-24
Metadata: {"Utfärdad": "1969-01-24", "Ändrad": "t.o.m. SFS 2020:361"}

==================================================

Lag (1969:12) om internationell vägtransport
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.
SFS nr
:     
1969:12
Departement/myndighet
:   
Justitiedepartementet L3
Utfärdad
:   
1969-01-24
Ändrad
:   
t.o.m. SFS 2020:361
Övrig text
:   
Endast den svenska texten finns med i bilagan.
Ändringsregister
:
SFSR (Regeringskansliet)
Källa
:
Fulltext (Regeringskansliet)
Innehåll:
Övergångsbestämmelser
1 §
Denna lag tillämpas på sådan vägtransport som regleras i  konvention-en den 19 maj 1956 om fraktavtalet vid  internationell godsbefordran på väg (CMR).
Som svensk lag ska gälla originaltexterna av artiklarna 1-41 i  konventionen, med de ändringar som har gjorts genom det den 
5 juli 1978 antagna ändringsprotokollet, och artiklarna 1-6 i  det den 20 februari 2008 antagna tilläggsprotokollet.  Originaltexterna ska ha samma giltighet.
Originaltexterna tillsammans med en svensk översättning finns  som bilaga 1 och 2 till denna lag.
Lag (2019:1194)
.
2 §
Regeringen kan efter överenskommelse med främmande stat och under förutsättning av ömsesidighet förordna, att befordran av gods på väg i lokal gränstrafik mellan Sverige och den staten skall vara helt eller delvis undantagen från tillämpning av konventionen.
Lag
(1978:137)
.
3 §
På en fraktsedel som upprättas i Sverige får fraktförarens  och avsändarens underskrifter vara tryckta. Stämpel får  användas i stället för underskrift.
En elektronisk fraktsedel som upprättas i Sverige ska  undertecknas med en sådan avancerad elektronisk underskrift  som avses i artikel 3 i Europaparlamentets och rådets  förordning (EU) nr 910/2014 av den 23 juli 2014 om elektronisk  identifiering och betrodda tjänster för elektroniska  transaktioner på den inre marknaden och om upphävande av  direktiv 1999/93/EG, i den ursprungliga lydelsen. I stället  för en avancerad elektronisk underskrift får en avancerad  elektronisk stämpel enligt samma artikel användas.
Lag (2019:1194)
.
4 §
Försäljning enligt artikel 16 tredje stycket av gods som finnes i Sverige skall ske på offentlig auktion eller, om sådan icke lämpligen kan äga rum, på annat betryggande sätt. Såvitt det är möjligt skall fraktföraren i god tid underrätta den som äger förfoga över godset om tid och plats för försäljningen.
5 §
Vid tillämpning av artikel 29 och artikel 32 första stycket skall grov vårdslöshet likställas med uppsåt.
6 §
Talan som enligt artikel 31 första stycket kan upptagas i Sverige får väckas, utom vid domstol som är behörig enligt rättegångsbalken, vid domstolen i den ort där godset mottogs för befordran eller vid domstolen i bestämmelseorten.
Finnes ej behörig domstol enligt första stycket, väckes talan vid Stockholms tingsrätt.
Lag (1978:137)
.
7 §
En ansökan om att en utländsk dom som enligt artikel 31 tredje och fjärde styckena kan verkställas i Sverige ska förklaras verkställbar görs till den tingsrätt som regeringen föreskriver. Sökanden ska tillsammans med ansökan ge in
1. domen i original eller i kopia som bestyrkts av en myndighet, och
2. en förklaring av en behörig myndighet i den stat där domen meddelats, att domen avser en tvist om befordran som omfattas av konventionen samt att den har fått laga kraft och kan verkställas i nämnda stat.
De handlingar som avses i första stycket ska vara försedda med ett bevis om utfärdarens behörighet. Beviset ska vara utställt av en svensk beskickning eller konsul eller av chefen för justitieförvaltningen i den stat där domen meddelats. Om en handling i ärendet inte är skriven på svenska, danska eller norska, ska även en översättning av handlingen till svenska ges in. Översättningen ska vara bestyrkt av en diplomatisk eller konsulär tjänsteman eller av en svensk notarius publicus.
Om en dom förklaras verkställbar, verkställs domen på samma sätt som en svensk dom som har fått laga kraft.
Vid handläggning i domstol av ett ärende om verkställbarhetsförklaring tillämpas i övrigt lagen
(1996:242) om domstolsärenden.
Lag (2014:918)
.
8 §
Har upphävts genom
lag (1985:178)
.
Övergångsbestämmelser
2014:918
1. Denna lag träder i kraft den 10 januari 2015.
2. Äldre föreskrifter gäller för handläggningen i Svea hovrätt och Högsta domstolen av ärenden som har inletts i hovrätten före ikraftträdandet.
Bilaga 1
Artiklarna 1-41 i konventionen den 19 maj 1956 om fraktavtalet  vid internationell godsbefordran på väg (CMR) i deras lydelse  enligt ändringsprotokollet den 5 juli 1978
CHAPTER I
Scope of application
Article 1
1. This Convention shall apply to every contract for the  carriage of goods by road in vehicles for reward, when the  place of taking over of the goods and the place designated for  delivery, as specified in the contract, are situated in two  different countries, of which at least one is a Contacting  country, irrespective of the place of residence and the na-
tionality of the parties.
2. For the purposes of this Convention, "vehicles" means motor  vehicles, articulated vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers as  defined in article 4 of the Convention on Road Traffic dated 
19 September 1949.
3. This Convention shall apply also where carriage coming  within its scope is carried out by States or by governmental  institutions or organizations.
4. This Convention shall not apply:
(a) to carriage performed under the terms of any international  postal convention;
(b) to funeral consignments;
(c) to furniture removal.
5. The Contracting Parties agree not to vary any of the provi-
sions of this Convention by special agreements between two or  more of them, except to make it inapplicable to their frontier  traffic or to authorize the use in transport operations  entirely confined to their territory of consignment notes  representing a title to the goods.
Article 2
1. Where the vehicle containing the goods is carried over part  of the journey by sea, rail, inland waterways or air, and,  except where the provisions of article 14 are applicable, the  goods are not unloaded from the vehicle, this Convention shall  nevertheless apply to the whole of the carriage. Provided that  to the extent that it is proved that any loss, damage or delay  in delivery of the goods which occurs during the carriage by  the other means of transport was not caused by an act or  omission of the carrier by road, but by some event which could  only have occurred in the course of and by reason of the  carriage by that other means of transport, the liability of  the carrier by road shall be determined not by this Convention  but in the manner in which the liability of the carrier by the  other means of transport would have been determined if a  contract for the carriage of the goods alone had been made by  the sender with the carrier by the other means of transport in  accordance with the conditions prescribed by law for the car-
riage of goods by that means of transport. If, however, there  are no such prescribed conditions, the liability of the  carrier by road shall be determined by this Convention.
2. If the carrier by road is also himself the carrier by the  other means of transport, his liability shall also be de-
termined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of  this article, but as if, in his capacities as carrier by road  and as carrier by the other means of transport, he were two  separate persons.
CHAPTER II
Persons for whom the carrier is responsible
Article 3
For the purposes of this Convention the carrier shall be  responsible for the acts and omissions of his agents and  servants and of any other persons of whose services he makes  use for the performance of the carriage, when such agents,  servants or other persons are acting within the scope of their  employment, as if such acts or omissions were his own.
CHAPTER III
Conclusion and performance of the contract of carriage
Article 4
The contract of carriage shall be confirmed by the making out  of a consignment note. The absence, irregularity or loss of  the consignment note shall not affect the existence or the va-
lidity of the contract of carriage which shall remain subject  to the provisions of this Convention.
Article 5
l. The consignment note shall be made out in three original  copies signed by the sender and by the carrier. These signa-
tures may be printed or replaced by the stamps of the sender  and the carrier if the law of the country in which the  consignment note has been made out so permits. The first copy  shall be handed to the sender, the second shall accompany the  goods and the third shall be retained by the carrier.
2. When the goods which are to be carried have to be loaded in  different vehicles, or are of different kinds or are divided  into different lots, the sender or the carrier shall have the  right to require a separate consignment note to be made out  for each vehicle used, or for each kind or lot of goods.
Article 6
1. The consignment note shall contain the following  particulars:
(a) the date of the consignment note and the place at which it  is made out;
(b) the name and address of the sender;
(c) the name and address of the carrier;
(d) the place and the date of taking over of the goods and the  place designated for delivery;
(e) the name and address of the consignee;
(f) the description in common use of the nature of the goods  and the method of packing, and, in the case of dangerous  goods, their generally recognized description;
(g) the number of packages and their special marks and  numbers;
(h) the gross weight of the goods or their quantity otherwise  expressed;
(i) charges relating to the carriage (carriage charges, sup-
plementary charges, customs duties and other charges incurred  from the making of the contract to the time of delivery);
(j) the requisite instructions for Customs and other  formalities;
(k) a statement that the carriage is subject, notwithstanding  any clause to the contrary, to the provisions of this  Convention.
2. Where applicable, the consignment note shall also contain  the following particulars:
(a) a statement that trans-shipment is not allowed;
(b) the charges which the sender undertakes to pay;
(c) the amount of "cash on delivery" charges;
(d) a declaration of the value of the goods and the amount  representing special interest in delivery;
(e) the sender's instructions to the carrier regarding in-
surance of the goods;
(f) the agreed time-limit within which the carriage is to be  carried out;
(g) a list of the documents handed to the carrier.
3. The parties may enter in the consignment note any other  particulars which they may deem useful.
Article 7
1. The sender shall be responsible for all expenses, loss and  damage sustained by the carrier by reason of the inaccuracy or  inadequacy of:
(a) the particulars specified in article 6, paragraph 1, (b), 
(d), (e), (f), (g), (h) and (j);
(b) the particulars specified in article 6, paragraph 2;
(c) any other particulars or instructions given by him to  enable the consignment note to be made out or for the purpose  of their being entered therein.
2. If, at the request of the sender, the carrier enters in the  consignment note the particulars referred to in paragraph 1 of  this article, he shall be deemed, unless the contrary is  proved, to have done so on behalf of the sender.
3. If the consignment note does not contain the statement  specified in article 6, paragraph 1 (k), the carrier shall be  liable for all expenses, loss and damage sustained through  such omission by the person entitled to dispose of the goods.
Article 8
l. On taking over the goods, the carrier shall check:
(a) the accuracy of the statements in the consignment note as  to the number of packages and their marks and numbers, and
(b) the apparent condition of the goods and their packaging.
2. Where the carrier has no reasonable means of checking the  accuracy of the statements referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of  this article, he shall enter his reservations in the con-
signment note together with the grounds on which they are  based. He shall likewise specify the grounds for any  reservations which he makes with regard to the apparent  condition of the goods and their packaging. Such reservations  shall not bind the sender unless he has expressly agreed to be  bound by them in the consignment note.
3. The sender shall be entitled to require the carrier to  check the gross weight of the goods or their quantity  otherwise expressed. He may also require the contents of the  packages to be checked. The carrier shall be entitled to claim  the cost of such checking. The result of the checks shall be  entered in the consignment note.
Article 9
1. The consignment note shall be prima facie evidence of the  making of the contract of carriage, the conditions of the  contract and the receipt of the goods by the carrier.
2. If the consignment note contains no specific reservations  by the carrier, it shall be presumed, unless the contrary is  proved, that the goods and their packaging appeared to be in  good condition when the carrier took them over and that the  number of packages, their marks and numbers corresponded with  the statements in the consignment note.
Article 10
The sender shall be liable to the carrier for damage to  persons, equipment or other goods, and for any expenses due to  defective packing of the goods, unless the defect was apparent  or known to the carrier at the time when he took over the  goods and he made no reservations concerning it.
Article 11
1. For the purposes of the Customs or other formalities which  have to be completed before delivery of the goods, the sender  shall attach the necessary documents to the consignment note  or place them at the disposal of the carrier and shall furnish  him with all the information which he requires.
2. The carrier shall not be under any duty to enquire into  either the accuracy or the adequacy of such documents and  information. The sender shall be liable to the carrier for any  damage caused by the absence, inadequacy or irregularity of  such documents and information, except in the case of some  wrongful act or neglect on the part of the carrier.
3. The liability of the carrier for the consequences arising  from the loss or incorrect use of the documents specified in  and accompanying the consignment note or deposited with the  carrier shall be that of an agent, provided that the  compensation payable by the carrier shall not exceed that  payable in the event of loss of the goods.
Article 12
1. The sender has the right to dispose of the goods, in par-
ticular by asking the carrier to stop the goods in transit, to  change the place at which delivery is to take place or to de-
liver the goods to a consignee other than the consignee indi-
cated in the consignment note.
2. This right shall cease to exist when the second copy of the  consignment note is handed to the consignee or when the  consignee exercises his right under article 13, paragraph 1;  from that time onwards the carrier shall obey the orders from  the consignee.
3. The consignee shall, however, have the right of disposal  from the time when the consignment note is drawn up, if the  sender makes an entry to that effect in the consignment note.
4. If in exercising his right of disposal the consignee has  ordered the delivery of the goods to another person, that  other person shall not be entitled to name other consignees.
5. The exercise of the right of disposal shall be subject to  the following conditions:
a) that the sender or, in the case referred to in paragraph 3  of this article, the consignee who wishes to exercise the  right produces the first copy of the consignment note on which  the new instructions to the carrier have been entered and  indemnifies the carrier against all expenses, loss and damage  involved in carrying out such instructions;
b) that the carrying out of such instructions is possible at  the time when the instructions reach the person who is to  carry them out and does not either interfere with the normal  working of the carrier's undertaking or prejudice the senders  or consignees of other consignments;
c) that the instructions do not result in a division of the  consignment.
6. When, by reason of the provisions of paragraph 5 (b) of  this article, the carrier cannot carry out the instructions  which he receives, he shall immediately notify the person who  gave him such instructions.
7. A carrier who has not carried out the instructions given  under the conditions provided for in this article, or who has  carried them out without requiring the first copy of the con-
signment note to be produced, shall be liable to the person  entitled to make a claim for any loss or damage caused there-
by.
Article 13
1. After arrival of the goods at the place designated for  delivery, the consignee shall be entitled to require the  carrier to deliver to him, against a receipt, the second copy  of the consignment note and the goods. If the loss of the  goods is established or if the goods have not arrived after  the expiry of the period provided for in article 19, the  consignee shall be entitled to enforce in his own name against  the carrier any rights arising from the contract of carriage.
2. The consignee who avails himself of the rights granted to  him under paragraph 1 of this article shall pay the charges  shown to be due on the consignment note, but in the event of  dispute on this matter the carrier shall not be required to  deliver the goods unless security has been furnished by the  consignee.
Article 14
1. If for any reason it is or becomes impossible to carry out  the contract in accordance with the terms laid down in the  consignment note before the goods reach the place designated  for delivery, the carrier shall ask for instructions from the  person entitled to dispose of the goods in accordance with the  provisions of article 12.
2. Nevertheless, if circumstances are such as to allow the  carriage to be carried out under conditions differing from  those laid down in the consignment note and if the carrier has  been unable to obtain instructions in reasonable time from the  person entitled to dispose of the goods in accordance with the  provisions of article 12, he shall take such steps as seem to  him to be in the best interests of the person entitled to  dispose of the goods.
Article 15
1. Where circumstances prevent delivery of the goods after  their arrival at the place designated for delivery, the  carrier shall ask the sender for his instructions. If the con-
signee refuses the goods the sender shall be entitled to  dispose of them without being obliged to produce the first  copy of the consignment note.
2. Even if he has refused the goods, the consignee may never-
theless require delivery so long as the carrier has not re-
ceived instructions to the contrary from the sender.
3. When circumstances preventing delivery of the goods arise  after the consignee, in exercise of his rights under  article 12, paragraph 3, has given an order for the goods to  be delivered to another person, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this  article shall apply as if the consignee were the sender and  that other person were the consignee.
Article 16
1. The carrier shall be entitled to recover the cost of his  request for instructions and any expenses entailed in carrying  out such instructions, unless such expenses were caused by the  wrongful act or neglect of the carrier.
2. In the cases referred to in article 14, paragraph 1, and in  article 15, the carrier may immediately unload the goods for  account of the person entitled to dispose of them and  thereupon the carriage shall be deemed to be at an end. The  carrier shall then hold the goods on behalf of the person so  entitled. He may however entrust them to a third party, and in  that case he shall not be under any liability except for the  exercise of reasonable care in the choice of such third party.  The charges due under the consignment note and all other  expenses shall remain chargeable against the goods.
3. The carrier may sell the goods, without awaiting in-
structions from the person entitled to dispose of them, if the  goods are perishable or their condition warrants such a  course, or when the storage expenses would be out of  proportion to the value of the goods. He may also proceed to  the sale of the goods in other cases if after the expiry of a  reasonable period he has not received from the person entitled  to dispose of the goods instructions to the contrary which he  may reasonably be required to carry out.
4. If the goods have been sold pursuant to this article, the  proceeds of sale, after deduction of the expenses chargeable  against the goods, shall be placed at the disposal of the  person entitled to dispose of the goods. If these charges  exceed the proceeds of sale, the carrier shall be entitled to  the difference.
5. The procedure in the case of sale shall be determined by  the law or custom of the place where the goods are situated.
CHAPTER IV
Liability of the carrier
Article 17
1. The carrier shall be liable for the total or partial loss  of the goods and for damage thereto occurring between the time  when he takes over the goods and the time of delivery, as well  as for any delay in delivery.
2. The carrier shall however be relieved of liability if the  loss, damage or delay was caused by the wrongful act or  neglect of the claimant, by the instructions of the claimant  given otherwise than as the result of a wrongful act or ne-
glect on the part of the carrier, by inherent vice of the  goods or through circumstances which the carrier could not  avoid and the consequences of which he was unable to prevent.
3. The carrier shall not be relieved of liability by reason of  the defective condition of the vehicle used by him in order to  perform the carriage, or by reason of the wrongful act or ne-
glect of the person from whom he may have hired the vehicle or  of the agents or servants of the latter.
4. Subject to article 18, paragraphs 2 to 5, the carrier shall  be relieved of liability when the loss or damage arises from  the special risks inherent in one or more of the following  circumstances:
(a) Use of open unsheeted vehicles, when their use has been  expressly agreed and specified in the consignment note;
(b) the lack of, or defective condition of packing in the  case of goods which, by their nature, are liable to wastage or  to be damaged when not packed or when not properly packed;
(c) handling, loading, stowage or unloading of the goods by  the sender, the consignee or persons acting on behalf of the  sender or the consignee;
(d) the nature of certain kinds of goods which particularly  exposes them to total or partial loss or to damage, especially  through breakage, rust, decay, desiccation, leakage, normal  wastage, or the action of moth or vermin;
(e) insufficiency or inadequacy of marks or numbers on the  packages;
(f) the carriage of livestock.
5. Where under this article the carrier is not under any  liability in respect of some of the factors causing the loss,  damage or delay, he shall only be liable to the extent that  those factors for which he is liable under this article have  contributed to the loss, damage or delay.
Article 18
1. The burden of proving that loss, damage or delay was due to  one of the causes specified in article 17, paragraph 2, shall  rest upon the carrier.
2. When the carrier establishes that in the circumstances of  the case, the loss or damage could be attributed to one or  more of the special risks referred to in article 17, para-
graph 4, it shall be presumed that it was so caused. The clai-
mant shall however be entitled to prove that the loss or dam-
age was not, in fact, attributable either wholly or partly to  one of these risks.
3. This presumption shall not apply in the circumstances set  out in article 17, paragraph 4 (a), if there has been an  abnormal shortage, or a loss of any package.
4. If the carriage is performed in vehicles specially equipped  to protect the goods from the effects of heat, cold,  variations in temperature or the humidity of the air, the  carrier shall not be entitled to claim the benefit of article 
17, paragraph 4 (d), unless he proves that all steps incumbent  on him in the circumstances with respect to the choice,  maintenance and use of such equipment were taken and that he  complied with any special instructions issued to him.
5. The carrier shall not be entitled to claim the benefit of  article 17, paragraph 4 (f), unless he proves that all steps  normally incumbent on him in the circumstances were taken and  that he complied with any special instructions issued to him.
Article 19
Delay in delivery shall be said to occur when the goods have  not been delivered within the agreed time-limit or when,  failing an agreed time-limit, the actual duration of the car-
riage having regard to the circumstances of the case, and in  particular, in the case of partial loads, the time required  for making up a complete load in the normal way, exceeds the  time it would be reasonable to allow a diligent carrier.
Article 20
1. The fact that goods have not been delivered within thirty  days following the expiry of the agreed time-limit, or, if  there is no agreed time-limit, within sixty days from the time  when the carrier took over the goods, shall be conclusive evi-
dence of the loss of the goods, and the person entitled to  make a claim may thereupon treat them as lost.
2. The person so entitled may, on receipt of compensation for  the missing goods, request in writing that he shall be  notified immediately should the goods be recovered in the  course of the year following the payment of compensation. He  shall be given a written acknowledgement of such request.
3. Within the thirty days following receipt of such noti-
fication, the person entitled as aforesaid may require the  goods to be delivered to him against payment of the charges  shown to be due on the consignment note and also against  refund of the compensation he received less any charges  included therein but without prejudice to any claims to  compensation for delay in delivery under article 23 and, where  applicable, article 26.
4. In the absence of the request mentioned in paragraph 2 or  of any instructions given within the period of thirty days  specified in paragraph 3, or if the goods are not recovered  until more than one year after the payment of compensation,  the carrier shall be entitled to deal with them in accordance  with the law of the place where the goods are situated.
Article 21
Should the goods have been delivered to the consignee without  collection of the "cash on delivery" charge which should have  been collected by the carrier under the terms of the contract  of carriage, the carrier shall be liable to the sender for  compensation not exceeding the amount of such charge without  prejudice to his right of action against the consignee.
Article 22
1. When the sender hands goods of a dangerous nature to the  carrier, he shall inform the carrier of the exact nature of  the danger and indicate, if necessary, the precautions to be  taken. If this information has not been entered in the  consignment note, the burden of proving, by some other means,  that the carrier knew the exact nature of the danger  constituted by the carriage of the said goods shall rest upon  the sender or the consignee.
2. Goods of a dangerous nature which, in the circumstances  referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, the carrier did  not know were dangerous, may, at any time or place, be  unloaded, destroyed or rendered harmless by the carrier  without compensation; further, the sender shall be liable for  all expenses, loss or damage arising out of their handing over  for carriage or of their carriage.
Article 23
l. When, under the provisions of this Convention, a carrier is  liable for compensation in respect of total or partial loss of  goods, such compensation shall be calculated by reference to  the value of the goods at the place and time at which they  were accepted for carriage.
2. The value of the goods shall be fixed according to the  commodity exchange price or, if there is no such price,  according to the current market price or, if there is no  commodity exchange price or current market price, by reference  to the normal value of goods of the same kind and quality.
3. Compensation shall not, however, exceed 8.33 units of  account per kilogram of gross weight short.
4. In addition, the carriage charges, Custom duties and other  charges incurred in respect of the carriage of the goods shall  be refunded in full in case of total loss and in proportion to  the loss sustained in case of partial loss, but no further  damages shall be payable.
5. In the case of delay, if the claimant proves that damage  has resulted therefrom, the carrier shall pay compensation for  such damage not exceeding the carriage charges.
6. Higher compensation may only be claimed where the value of  the goods or a special interest in delivery has been declared  in accordance with articles 24 and 26.
7. The unit of account mentioned in this Convention is the  Special Drawing Right as defined by the International Monetary  Fund. The amount mentioned in paragraph 3 of this article  shall be converted into the national currency of the State of  the Court seized of the case on the basis of the value of that  currency on the date of the judgement or the date agreed upon  by the Parties. The value of the national currency, in terms  of the Special Drawing Right, of a State which is a member of  the International Monetary Fund, shall be calculated in  accordance with the method of valuation applied by the In-
ternational Monetary Fund in effect at the date in question  for its operations and transactions. The value of the national  currency, in terms of the Special Drawing Right, of a State  which is not a member of the International Monetary Fund,  shall be calculated in a manner determined by that State.
8. Nevertheless, a State which is not a member of the In-
ternational Monetary Fund and whose law does not permit the  application of the provisions of paragraph 7 of this article  may, at the time of ratification of or accession to the  Protocol to the CMR or at any time thereafter, declare that  the limit of liability provided for in paragraph 3 of this  article to be applied in its territory shall be 25 monetary  units. The monetary units referred to in this paragraph  corresponds to 10/31 gram of gold of millesimal fineness nine  hundred. The conversion of the amount specified in this par-
agraph into the national currency shall be made according to  the law of the State concerned.
9. The calculation mentioned in the last sentence of paragraph 
7 of this article and the conversion mentioned in paragraph 8  of this article, shall be made in such a manner as to express  in the national currency of the State as far as possible the  same real value for the amount in paragraph 3 of this article  as is expressed there in units of account. States shall com-
municate to the Secretary-General of the United Nations the  manner of calculation pursuant to paragraph 7 of this article  or the result of the conversion in paragraph 8 of this article  as the case may be, when depositing an instrument referred to  in article 3 of the Protocol to the CMR and whenever there is  a change in either.
Article 24
The sender may, against payment of a surcharge to be agreed  upon, declare in the consignment note a value for the goods  exceeding the limit laid down in article 23, paragraph 3, and  in that case the amount of the declared value shall be  substituted for that limit.
Article 25
1. In case of damage, the carrier shall be liable for the  amount by which the goods have diminished in value, calculated  by reference to the value of the goods fixed in accordance  with article 23, paragraphs 1, 2 and 4.
2. The compensation may not, however, exceed:
(a) if the whole consignment has been damaged, the amount  payable in the case of total loss;
(b) if part only of the consignment has been damaged, the  amount payable in the case of loss of the part affected.
Article 26
1. The sender may, against payment of a surcharge to be agreed  upon, fix the amount of a special interest in delivery in the  case of loss or damagc or of the agreed time-limit being  exceeded, by entering such amount in the consignment note.
2. If a declaration of a special interest in delivery has been  made, compensation for the additional loss or damage proved  may be claimed, up to the total amount of the interest  declared, independently of the compensation provided for in  articles 23, 24 and 25.
Article 27
1. The claimant shall be entitled to claim interest on  compensation payable. Such interest, calculated at five per  centum per annum, shall accrue from the date on which the  claim was sent in writing to the carrier or, if no such claim  has been made, from the date on which legal proceedings were  instituted.
2. When the amounts on which the calculation of the  compensation is based are not expressed in the currency of the  country in which payment is claimed, conversion shall be at  the rate of exchange applicable on the day and at the place of  payment of compensation.
Article 28
1. In cases where, under the law applicable, loss, damage or  delay arising out of carriage under this Convention gives rise  to an extracontractual claim, the carrier may avail himself of  the provisions of this Convention which exclude his liability  or which fix or limit the compensation due.
2. In cases where the extra-contractual liability for loss,  damage or delay of one of the persons for whom the carrier is  responsible under the terms of article 3 is in issue, such  person may also avail himself of the provisions of this Con-
vention which exclude the liability of the carrier or which  fix or limit the compensation due.
Article 29
1. The carrier shall not be entitled to avail himself of the  provisions of this chapter which exclude or limit his  liability or which shift the burden of proof if the damage was  caused by his wilful misconduct or by such default on his part  as, in accordance with the law of the court or tribunal seized  of the case, is considered as equivalent to wilful misconduct.
2. The same provision shall apply if the wilful misconduct or  default is committed by the agents or servants of the carrier  or by any other persons of whose services he makes use for the  performance of the carriage, when such agents, servants or  other persons are acting within the scope of their employment.  Furthermore, in such a case such agents, servants or other  persons shall not be entitled to avail themselves, with regard  to their personal liability, of the provisions of this chapter  referred to in paragraph 1.
CHAPTER V
Claims and actions
Article 30
1. If the consignee takes delivery of the goods without duly  checking their condition with the carrier or without sending  him reservations giving a general indication of the loss or  damage, not later than the time of delivery in the case of  apparent loss or damage and within seven days of delivery,  Sundays and public holidays excepted, in the case of loss or  damage which is not apparent, the fact of his taking delivery  shall be prima facie evidence that he has received the goods  in the condition described in the consignment note. In the  case of loss or damage which is not apparent the reservations  referred to shall be made in writing.
2. When the condition of the goods has been duly checked by  the consignee and the carrier, evidence contradicting the  result of this checking shall only be admissible in the case  of loss or damage which is not apparent and provided that the  consignee has duly sent reservations in writing to the carrier  within seven days, Sundays and public holidays excepted, from  the date of checking.
3. No compensation shall be payable for delay in delivery  unless a reservation has been sent in writing to the carrier,  within twenty-one days from the time that the goods were  placed at the disposal of the consignee.
4. In calculating the time-limits provided for in this Article  the date of delivery, or the date of checking, or the date  when the goods were placed at the disposal of the consignee,  as the case may be, shall not be included.
5. The carrier and the consignee shall give each other every  reasonable facility for making the requisite investigations  and checks.
Article 31
1. In legal proceedings arising out of carriage under this  Convention, the plaintiff may bring an action in any court or  tribunal of a contracting country designated by agreement  between the parties and, in addition, in the courts or tribu-
nals of a country within whose territory:
(a) the defendant in ordinarily resident, or has his principal  place of business, or the branch or agency through which the  contract of carriage was made, or
(b) the place where the goods were taken over by the carrier  or the place designated for delivery is situated,
and in no other courts or tribunals.
2. Where in respect of a claim referred to in paragraph 1 of  this article an action is pending before a court or tribunal  competent under that paragraph, or where in respect of such a  claim a judgement has been entered by such a court or tribunal  no new action shall be started between the same parties on the  same grounds unless the judgement of the court or tribunal  before which the first action was brought is not enforceable  in the country in which the fresh proceedings are brought.
3. When a judgement entered by a court or tribunal of a  contracting country in any such action as is referred to in  paragraph 1 of this article has become enforceable in that  country, it shall also become enforceable in each of the other  contracting States, as soon as the formalities required in the  country concerned have been complied with. These formalities  shall not permit the merits of the case to be re-opened.
4. The provisions of paragraph 3 of this article shall apply  to judgements after trial, judgements by default and  settlements confirmed by an order of the court, but shall not  apply to interim judgements or to awards of damages, in  addition to costs against a plaintiff who wholly or partly  fails in his action.
5. Security for costs shall not be required in proceedings  arising out of carriage under this Convention from nationals  of contracting countries resident or having their place of  business in one of those countries.
Article 32
1. The period of limitation for an action arising out of  carriage under this Convention shall be one year. Never-
theless, in the case of wilful misconduct, or such default as  in accordance with the law of the court or tribunal seised of  the case, is considered as equivalent to wilful misconduct,  the period of limitation shall be three years. The period of  limitation shall begin to run:
(a) in the case of partial loss, damage or delay in delivery,  from the date of delivery;
(b) in the case of total loss, from the thirtieth day after  the expiry of the agreed time-limit or where there is no  agreed time-limit from the sixtieth day from the date on which  the goods were taken over by the carrier;
(c) in all other cases, on the expiry of a period of three  months after the making of the contract of carriage.
The day on which the period of limitation begins to run shall  not be included in the period.
2. A written claim shall suspend the period of limitation  until such date as the carrier rejects the claim by notifi-
cation in writing and returns the documents attached thereto.  If a part of the claim is admitted the period of limitation  shall start to run again only in respect of that part of the  claim still in dispute. The burden of proof of the receipt of  the claim, or of the reply and of the return of the documents,  shall rest with the party relying upon these facts. The  running of the period of limitation shall not be suspended by  further claims having the same object.
3. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 above, the  extension of the period of limitation shall be governed by the  law of the court or tribunal seised of the case. That law  shall also govern the fresh accrual of rights of action.
4. A right of action which has become barred by lapse of time  may not be exercised by way of counter-claim or set-off.
Article 33
The contract of carriage may contain a clause conferring  competence on an arbitration tribunal if the clause conferring  competence on the tribunal provides that the tribunal shall  apply this Convention.
CHAPTER VI
Provisions relating to carriage performed by successive  carriers
Article 34
If carriage governed by a single contract is performed by  successive road carriers, each of them shall be responsible  for the performance of the whole operation, the second carrier  and each succeeding carrier becoming a party to the contract  of carriage, under the terms of the consignment note, by  reason of his acceptance of the goods and the consignment  note.
Article 35
l. A carrier accepting the goods from a previous carrier shall  give the latter a dated and signed receipt. He shall enter his  name and address on the second copy of the consignment note.  Where applicable, he shall enter on the second copy of the  consignment note and on the receipt reservations of the kind  provided for in article 8, paragraph 2.
2. The provisions of article 9 shall apply to the relations  between successive carriers.
Article 36
Except in the case of a counter-claim or a set-off raised in  an action concerning a claim based on the same contract of  carriage, legal proceedings in respect of liability for loss,  damage or delay may only be brought against the first carrier,  the last carrier or the carrier who was performing that por-
tion of the carriage during which the event causing the loss,  damage or delay occurred; an action may be brought at the same  time against several of these carriers.
Article 37
A carrier who has paid compensation in compliance with the  provisions of this Convention, shall be entitled to recover  such compensation, together with interest thereon and all  costs and expenses incurred by reason of the claim, from the  other carriers who have taken part in the carriage, subject to  the following provisions:
(a) the carrier responsible for the loss or damage shall be  solely liable for the compensation whether paid by himself or  by another carrier;
(b) when the loss or damage has been caused by the action of  two or more carriers, each of them shall pay an amount propor-
tionate to his share of liability; should it be impossible to  apportion the liability, each carrier shall be liable in  proportion to the share of the payment for the carriage which  is due to him;
(c) if it cannot be ascertained to which carriers liability  is attributable for the loss or damage, the amount of the com-
pensation shall be apportioned between all the carriers as  laid down in (b) above.
Article 38
If one of the carriers is insolvent, the share of the com-
pensation due from him and unpaid by him shall be divided  among the other carriers in proportion to the share of the  payment for the carriage due to them.
Article 39
1. No carrier against whom a claim is made under articles 37  and 38 shall be entitled to dispute the validity of the  payment made by the carrier making the claim if the amount of  the compensation was determined by judicial authority after  the first mentioned carrier had been given due notice of the  proceedings and afforded an opportunity of entering an  appearance.
2. A carrier wishing to take proceedings to enforce his right  of recovery may make his claim before the competent court or  tribunal of the country in which one of the carriers concerned  is ordinarily resident, or has his principal place of business  or the branch or agency through which the contract of carriage  was made. All the carriers concerned may be made defendants in  the same action.
3. The provisions of article 31, paragraphs 3 and 4, shall  apply to judgements entered in the proceedings referred to in  articles 37 and 38.
4. The provisions of article 32 shall apply to claims between  carriers. The period of limitation shall, however, begin to  run either on the date of the final judicial decision fixing  the amount of compensation payable under the provisions of  this Convention, or, if there is no such judicial decision,  from the actual date of payment.
Article 40
Carriers shall be free to agree among themselves on provisions  other than those laid down in articles 37 and 38.
CHAPTER VII
Nullity of stipulations contrary to the Convention
Article 41
1. Subject to the provisions of article 40, any stipulation  which would directly or indirectly derogate from the  provisions of this Convention shall be null and void. The  nullity of such a stipulation shall not involve the nullity of  the other provisions of the contract.
2. In particular, a benefit of insurance in favour of the car-
rier or any other similar clause, or any clause shifting the  burden of proof shall be null and void.
CHAPITRE PREMIER
Champ d'application
Article premier
1. La présente Convention s'applique à tout contrat de  transport de marchandises par route à titre onéreux au moyen  de véhicules, lorsque le lieu de la prise en charge de la  merchandise et le lieu prévu pour la livraison, tels qu'ils  sont indiqués au contrat, sont situés dans deux pays dif-
férents dont l'un au moins est un pays contractant. Il en est  ainsi quels que soient le domicile et la nationalité des  parties.
2. Pour l'application de la présente Convention, il faut  entendre par "véhicules" les automobiles, les véhicules  articulés, les remorques et les semi-remorques, tels qu'ils  sont définis par l'article 4 de la Convention sur la  circulation routière en date du 19 septembre 1949.
3. La présente Convention s'applique même si les transports  rentrant dans son champ d'application sont effectués par des  Etats ou par des institutions ou organisations gouver-
nementales.
4. La présente Convention ne s'applique pas:
a) aux transports effectués sous l'empire de conventions  postales internationales,
b) aux transports funéraires,
c) aux transports de déménagement.
5. Les Parties contractantes s'interdisent d'apporter par voie  d'accords particuliers conclus entre deux ou plusieurs d'entre  elles toute modification à la présente Convention, sauf pour  soustraire à son empire leur trafic frontalier ou pour  autoriser dans les transports empruntant exclusivement leur  territoire l'emploi de la lettre de voiture represéntative de  la marchandise.
Article 2
1. Si le véhicule contenant les marchandises est transporté  par mer, chemin de fer, voie navigable intérieure ou air sur  une partie du parcours, sans rupture de charge sauf, 
éventuellement, pour l'application des dispositions de  l'article 14, la présente Convention s'applique, néanmoins,  pour l'ensemble du transport. Cependant, dans la mesure où il  est prouvé qu'une perte, une avarie ou un retard à la livrai-
son de la marchandise qui est survenu au cours du transport  par l'un des modes de transport autre que la route n'a pas été  causé par un acte ou une omission du transporteur routier et  qu'il provient d'un fait qui n'a pu se produire qu'au cours et  en raison du transport non routier, la responsabilité du  transporteur routier est déterminée non par la présente  Convention, mais de la façon dont la responsabilité du  transporteur non routier eût été déterminée si un contrat de  transport avait été conclu entre l'expéditeur et le  transporteur non routier pour le seul transport de la mar-
chandise conformément aux dispositions impératives de la loi  concernant le transport de marchandises par le mode de trans-
port autre que la route. Toutefois, en l'absence de telles  dispositions, la responsabilité du transporteur par route sera  déterminée par la présente Convention.
2. Si le transporteur routier est en même temps le  transporteur non routier, sa responsabilité est également  déterminée par le paragraphe premier comme si sa fonction de  transporteur routier et sa fonction de transporteur non  routier étaient exercées par deux personnes différentes.
CHAPITRE II
Personnes dont répond le transporteur
Article 3
Pour l'application de la présente Convention, le transporteur  répond, comme de ses propres actes et omissions, des actes et  omissions de ses préposés et de toutes autres personnes aux  services desquelles il recourt pour l'exécution du transport  lorsque ces préposés ou ces personnes agissent dans l'exercice  de leurs fonctions.
CHAPITRE III
Conclusion et exécution du contrat de transport
Article 4
Le contrat de transport est constaté par une lettre de  voiture. L'abscence, l'irrégularité ou la perte de la lettre  de voiture n'affectent ni l'existence ni la validité du  contrat de transport qui reste soumis aux dispositions de la  présente Convention.
Article 5
1. La lettre de voiture est établie en trois exemplaires  originaux signés par l'expéditeur et par le transporteur, ces  signatures pouvant être imprimées ou remplacées par les  timbres de l'expéditeur et du transporteur si la législation  du pays où la lettre de voiture est établie le permet. Le  premier exemplaire est remis à l'expéditeur, le deuxième  accompagne la marchandise et le troisième est retenu par le  transporteur.
2. Lorsque la marchandise à transporter doit être chargée dans  des véhicules différents, ou lorsqu'il s'agit de différentes  espèces de marchandises ou de lots distincts, l'expéditeur ou  le transporteur a le droit d'exiger l'établissement d'autant  de lettres de voiture qu'il doit être utilisé de véhicules ou  qu'il y a d'espèces ou de lots de marchandises.
Article 6
1. La lettre de voiture doit contenir les indications sui-
vantes:
a) le lieu et la date de son établissement,
b) le nom et l'adresse de l'expéditeur,
c) le nom et l'adresse du transporteur,
d) le lieu et la date de la prise en charge de la marchandise  et le lieu prévu pour la livraison,
e) le nom et l'adresse du destinataire,
f) la dénomination courante de la nature de la marchandise et  le mode d'emballage, et, pour les marchandises dangereuses,  leur dénomination généralement reconnue,
g) le nombre des colis, leurs marques particulières et leurs  numéros,
h) le poids brut ou la quantité autrement exprimée de la  marchandise,
i) les frais afférents au transport (prix de transport, frais  accessoires, droits de douane et autres frais survenant à  partir de la conclusion du contrat jusqu'à la livraison),
j) les instructions requises pour les formalités de douane et  autres,
k) l'indication que le transport est soumis, nonobstant toute  clause contraire, au régime établi par la présente Convention.
2. Le cas échéant, la lettre de voiture doit contenir, en  outre, les indications suivantes:
a) l'interdiction de transbordement,
b) les frais que l'expéditeur prend à sa charge,
c) le montant du remboursement à percevoir lors de la  livraison de la marchandise,
d) la valeur déclarée de la marchandise et la somme représen-
tant l'intérêt spécial à la livraison,
e) les instructions de l'expéditeur au transporteur en ce qui  concerne l'assurance de la marchandise,
f) le délai convenu dans lequel le transport doit être  effectué,
g) la liste des documents remis au transporteur.
3. Les parties peuvent porter sur la lettre de voiture toute  autre indication qu'elles jugent utile.
Article 7
1. L'expéditeur répond de tous frais et dommages que  supporterait le transporteur en raison de l'inexactitude ou de  l'insuffisance:
a) des indications mentionnées à l'article 6, paragraphe 1,  b), d), e), f), g), h) et j),
b) des indications mentionnées à l'article 6, paragraphe 2,
c) de toutes autres indications ou instructions qu'il donne  pour l'établissement de la lettre de voiture ou pour y être  reportées.
2. Si, à la demande de l'expéditeur, le transporteur inscrit  sur la lettre de voiture les mentions visées au paragraphe 1  du présent article, il est considéré, jusqu'à preuve du  contraire, comme agissant pour le compte de l'expéditeur.
3. Si la lettre de voiture ne contient pas la mention prévue à  l'article 6, paragraphe 1, k), le transporteur est responsable  de tous frais et dommages que subirait l'ayant droit à la  marchandise en raison de cette omission.
Article 8
1. Lors de la prise en charge de la marchandise, le trans-
porteur est tenu de vérifier :
a) l'exactitude des mentions de la lettre de voiture relatives  au nombre de colis, ainsi qu'à leurs marques et numéros,
b) l'état apparent de la marchandise et de son emballage.
2. Si le transporteur n'a pas de moyens raisonnables de vé-
rifier l'exactitude des mentions visées au paragraphe 1, a) du  présent article, il inscrit sur la lettre de voiture des  réserves qui doivent être motivées. Il doit de même motiver  toutes les réserves qu'il fait au sujet de l'état apparent de  la marchandise et de son emballage. Ces réserves n'engagent  pas l'expéditeur, si celui-ci ne les a pas expressément ac-
ceptées sur la lettre de voiture.
3. L'expéditeur a le droit d'exiger la vérification par le  transporteur du poids brut ou de la quantité autrement  exprimée de la marchandise. Il peut aussi exiger la vérifi-
cation du contenu des colis. Le transporteur peut réclamer le  paiement des frais de vérification. Le résultat des véri-
fications est consigné sur la lettre de voiture.
Article 9
1. La lettre de voiture fait foi, jusqu'à preuve du contraire,  des conditions du contrat et de la réception de la marchandise  par le transporteur.
2. En l'absence d'inscription sur la lettre de voiture de  réserves motivées du transporteur, il y a présomption que la  marchandise et son emballage étaient en bon état apparent au  moment de la prise en charge par le transporteur et que le  nombre des colis ainsi que leurs marques et numéros, étaient  conformes aux énonciations de la lettre de voiture.
Article 10
L'expéditeur est responsable envers le transporteur des  dommages aux personnes, au matériel ou à d'autres mar-
chandises, ainsi que des frais, qui auraient pour origine la  défectuosité de l'emballage de la marchandise, à moins que, la  défectuosité étant apparente ou connue du transporteur au  moment de la prise en charge, le transporteur n'ait pas fait  de réserves à son sujet.
Article 11
1. En vue de l'accomplissement des formalités de douane et  autres à remplir avant la livraison de la marchandise,  l'expéditeur doit joindre à la lettre de voiture ou mettre à  la disposition du transporteur les documents nécessaires et  lui fournir tous renseignements voulus.
2. Le transporteur n'est pas tenu d'examiner si ces documents  et renseignements sont exacts ou suffisants. L'expéditeur est  responsable envers le transporteur de tous dommages qui  pourraient résulter de l'absence, de l'insuffisance ou de  l'irrégularité de ces documents et renseignements, sauf en cas  de faute du transporteur.
3. Le transporteur est responsable au même titre qu'un  commissionnaire des conséquences de la perte ou de l'utilisa-
tion inexacte des documents mentionnés sur la lettre de  voiture et qui accompagnent celle-ci ou qui sont déposés entre  ses mains; toutefois, l'indemnité à sa charge ne dépassera pas  celle qui serait due en cas de perte de la marchandise.
Article 12
1. L'expéditeur a le droit de disposer de la marchandise,  notamment en demandant au transporteur d'en arrêter le  transport, de modifier le lieu prévu pour la livraison ou de  livrer la marchandise à un destinataire différent de celui  indiqué sur la lettre de voiture.
2. Ce droit s'éteint lorsque le deuxième exempaire de la  lettre de voiture est remis au destinataire ou que celui-ci  fait valoir le droit prévu à l'article 13, paragraphe 1; à  partir de ce moment, le transporteur doit se conformer aux  ordres du destinataire.
3. Le droit de disposition appartient toutefois au destina-
taire dès l'établissement de la lettre de voiture si une  mention dans ce sans est faite par l'expéditeur sur cette  lettre.
4. Si, en exerçant son droit de disposition, le destinataire  ordonne de livrer la merchandise à une autre personne, celle-
ci ne peut pas désigner d'autres destinataires.
5. L'exercice du droit de disposition est subordonné aux  conditions suivantes:
a) l'expéditeur ou, dans le cas visé au paragraphe 3 du  présent article, le destinataire qui veut exercer ce droit  doit présenter le premier exemplaire de la lettre de voiture,  sur lequel doivent être inscrites les nouvelles instructions  données au transporteur, et dédommager le transporteur des  frais et du préjudice qu'entraîne l'exécution de ces  instructions;
b) cette exécution doit être possible au moment où les  instructions parvienent à la personne qui doit les  l'exploitation normale de l'entreprise du transporteur, ni  porter préjudice aux expéditeurs ou destinataires d'autres  envois;
c) les instructions ne doivent jamais avoir pour effet de  diviser l'envoi.
6. Lorsque, en raison des dispositions prévues au  paragraphe 5, b) du présent article, le transporteur ne peut  exécuter les instructions qu'il reçoit, il doit en aviser  immédiatement la personne dont émanent ces instructions.
7. Le transporteur qui n'aura pas exécuté les instructions  données dans les conditions prévues au présent article ou qui  se sera conformé à de telles instructions sans avoir exigé la  présentation du premier exemplaire de la lettre de voiture  sera resonsable envers l'ayant droit du préjudice causé par ce  fait.
Article 13
1. Après l'arrivée de la marchandise au lieu prévu pour la  livraison, le destinataire a le droit de demander que le  deuxième exemplaire de la lettre de voiture lui soit remis et  que la marchandise lui soit livrée, le tout contre décharge.  Si la perte de la marchandise est établie, ou si la  marchandise n'est pas arrivée à l'expiration du délai prévu à  l'article 19, le destinataire est autorisé à faire valoir en  son propre nom vis-à-vis du transporteur les droits qui  résultent du contrat de transport.
2. Le destinataire qui se prévant des droits qui lui sont  accordés aux termes du paragraphe 1 du présent article est  tenu de payer le montant des créances résultant de la lettre  de voiture. En cas de contestation à ce sujet, le transporteur  n'est obligé d'effectuer la livraison de la marchandise que si  une cautian lui est fournie par le destinataire.
Article 14
1. Si, pour un motif quelconque, l'exécution du contrat dans  les conditions prévues à la lettre de voiture est ou devient  impossible avant l'arrivée de la marchandise au lieu prévu  pour la livraison, le transporteur est tenu de demander des  instructions à la personne qui a le droit de disposer de la  marchandise conformément à l'article 12.
2. Toutefois, si les circonstances permettent l'exécution du  transport dans des conditions différentes de celles prévues à  la lettre de voiture et si le transporteur n'a pu obtenir en  temps utile les instructions de la personne qui a le droit de  disposer de la marchandise conformément à l'article 12, il  prend les mesures qui lui paraissent les meilleures dans  l'intérêt de la personne ayant le droit de disposer de la  marchandise.
Article 15
1. Lorsque, après l'arrivée de la marchandise au lieu de  destination, il se présente des empêchements à la livraison,  le transporteur demande des instructions à l'expéditeur. Si le  destinataire refuse la marchandise, l'expéditeur a le droit de  disposer de celle-ci sans avoir à produire le premier exem-
plaire de la lettre de voiture.
2. Meme s'il a refusé la marchandise, le destinataire peut  toujours en demander la livraison tant que le transporteur n'a  pas reçu d'instructions contraires de l'expéditeur.
3. Si l'empêchement à la livraison se présente après que,  conformément au droit qu'il détient en vertu de l'article 12,  paragraphe 3, le destinataire a donné l'ordre de livrer la  marchandise à une autre personne, le destinataire est sub-
stitué à l'expéditeur, et cette autre personne au desti-
nataire, pour l'application des paragraphes 1 et 2 ci-dessus.
Article 16
1. Le transporteur a droit au remboursement des frais que lui  cause sa demande d'instructions, ou qu'entraîne pour lui  l'exécution des instructions reçues, à moins que ces frais ne  soient la conséquence de sa faute.
2. Dans les cas visés à l'article 14, paragraphe 1, et à  l'article 15, le transporteur peut décharger immédiatement la  marchandise pour le compte de l'ayant droit; après ce  déchargement, le transport est réputé terminé. Le transporteur  assume alors la garde de la marchandise. Il peut toutefois  confier la marchandise à un tiers et n'est alors responsable  que du choix judicieux de ce tiers. La marchandise reste  grevée des créances résultant de la lettre de voiture et de  tous autres frais.
3. Le transporteur peut faire procéder à la vente de la  marchandise sans attendre d'instructions de l'ayant droit  lorsque la nature périssable ou l'etat de la marchandise le  justifie ou lorsque les frais de garde sont hors de proportion  avec la valeur de la marchandise. Dans les autres cas, il peut 
également faire procéder à la vente lorsque, dans un délai  raisonnable, il n'a pas reçu de l'ayant droit d'instructions  contraires dont l'exécution puisse équitablement être exigée.
4. Si la marchandise a été vendue en application du présent  article, le produit de la vente doit être mis à la disposition  de l'ayant droit, déduction faite des frais grevant la mar-
chandise. Si ces frais sont supérieures au produit de la  vente, le transporteur a droit à la différence.
5. La façon de procéder en cas de vente est detérminée par la  loi ou les usages du lieu où se trouve la marchandise.
CHAPITRE IV
Responsabilité du transporteur
Article 17
1. Le transporteur est responsable de la perte totale ou  partielle, ou de l'avarie, qui se produit entre le moment de  la prise en charge de la marchandise et celui de la livraison,  ainsi que du retard à la livraison.
2. Le transporteur est déchargé de cette responsabilité si la  perte, l'avarie ou le retard a eu pour cause une faute de  l'ayant droit, un ordre de celui-ci ne résultant pas d'une  faute du transporteur, un vice propre de la marchandise, ou  des circonstances que le transporteur ne pouvait pas éviter et  aux conséquences desquelles il ne pouvait pas obvier.
3. Le transporteur ne peut exciper, pour se décharger de sa  responsabilité, ni des défectuosités du véhicule dont il se  sert pour effectuer le transport, ni de fautes de la personne  dont il aurait loué le véhicule ou des préposés de celle-ci.
4. Compte tenu de l'article 18, paragraphes 2 à 5, le  transporteur est déchargé de sa responsabilité lorsque la  perte ou l'avarie résulte des risques particuliers inhérents à  l'un des faits suivants ou à plusieurs d'entre eux:
a) emploi de véhicules ouverts et non bâchés, lorsque cet  emploi a été convenu d'une manière expresse et mentionné dans  la lettre de voiture;
b) absence ou défectuosité de l'emballage pour les  marchandises exposées par leur nature à des déchets ou avaries  quand elles ne sont pas emballées ou sont mal emballées;
c) manutention, chargement, arrimage ou déchargement de la  marchandise par l'expéditeur ou le destinataire ou des  personnes agissant pour le compte de l'expéditeur ou du  destinataire;
d) nature de certaines marchandises exposées, par des causes  inhérentes à cette nature même, soit à perte totale ou  partielle, soit à avarie, notamment par bris, rouille,  détérioration interne et spontanée, dessiccation, coulage,  déchet normal ou action de la vermine et des rongeurs;
e) insuffisance ou imperfection des marques ou des numéros de  colis;
f) transport d'animaux vivants.
5. Si, en vertu du présent article, le transporteur ne répond  pas de certains des facteurs qui ont causé le dommage, sa  responsabilité n'est engagée que dans la proportion où les  facteurs dont il répond en vertu du présent article ont  contribué au dommage.
Article 18
1. La preuve que la perte, l'avarie ou le retard a eu pour  cause un des faits prévus à l'article 17, paragraphe 2, in-
combe au transporteur.
2. Lorsque le transporteur établit que, eu égard aux circon-
stances de fait, la perte ou l'avarie a pu résulter d'un ou de  plusieurs des risques particuliers prévus à l'article 17,  paragraphe 4, il y a présomption qu'elle en résulte. L'ayant  droit peut toutefois faire la preuve que le dommage n'a pas eu  l'un de ces risques pour cause totale ou partielle.
3. La présomption visée ci-dessus n'est pas applicable dans le  cas prévu à l'article 17, paragraphe 4, a), s'il y a manquant  d'une importance anormale ou perte de colis.
4. Si le transport est effectué au moyen d'un véhicule aménagé  en vue de soustraire les marchandises à l'influence de la  chaleur, du froid, des variations de température ou de  l'humidité de l'air, le transporteur ne peut invoquer le  bénéfice de l'article 17, paragraphe 4, d), que s'il fournit  la preuve que toutes les mesures lui incombant, compte tenu  des circonstances, ont été prises en ce qui concerne le choix,  l'entretien et l'emploi de ces aménagements et qu'il s'est  conformé aux instructions spéciales qui ont pu lui être  données.
5. Le transporteur ne peut invoquer le bénéfice de l'artic-
le 17, paragraphe 4, f), que s'il fournit la preuve que toutes  les mesures lui incombant normalement, compte tenu des  circonstances, ont été prises et qu'il s'est conformé aux  instructions spéciales qui ont pu lui être données.
Article 19
Il y a retard à la livraison lorsque la marchandise n'a pas 
été livrée dans le délai convenu ou, s'il n'a pas été convenu  de délai, lorsque la durée effective du transport dépasse,  compte tenu des circonstances et, notamment, dans le cas d'un  chargement partiel, du temps voulu pour assembler un charge-
ment complet dans des conditions normales, le temps qu'il est  raisonnable d'allouer à des transporteurs diligents.
Article 20
1. L'ayant droit peut, sans avoir à fournir d'autres preuves,  considérer la marchandise comme perdue quand elle n'a pas été  livrée dans les trente jours qui suivent l'expiration du délai  convenu ou, s'il n'a pas été convenu de délai, dans les  soixante jours qui suivent la prise en charge de la mar-
chandise par le transporteur.
2. L'ayant droit peut, en recevant le paiement de l'indemnité  pour la marchandise perdue, demander, par écrit, à être avisé  immédiatement dans le cas où la marchandise serait retrouvée  au cours de l'année qui suivra le paiement de l'indemnité. Il  lui est donné par écrit acte de cette demande.
3. Dans les trente jours qui suivent la réception de cet avis,  l'ayant droit peut exiger que la marchandise lui soit livrée  contre paiement des créances résultant de la lettre de voiture  et contre restitution de l'indemnité qu'il a reçue, déduction  faite éventuellement des frais qui auraient été compris dans  cette indemnité, et sous réserve de tous droits à l'indemnité  pour retard à la livraison prévue à l'article 23 et, s'il y a  lieu, à l'article 26.
4. A défaut soit de la demande prévue au paragraphe 2, soit  d'instructions données dans le délai de trente jours prévu au  paragraphe 3, ou encore si la marchandise n'a été retrouvée  que plus d'un an après le paiement de l'indemnité, le trans-
porteur en dispose conformément à la loi du lieu où se trouve  la marchandise.
Article 21
Si la marchandise est livrée au destinataire sans encaissement  du remboursement qui aurait dû être perçu par le transporteur  en vertu des dispositions du contrat de transport, le trans-
porteur est tenu d'indemniser l'expéditeur à concurrence du  montant du remboursement, sauf son recours contre le  destinataire.
Article 22
1. Si l'expéditeur remet au transporteur des marchandises  dangereuses, il lui signale la nature exacte du danger  qu'elles présentent et lui indique éventuellement les pré-
cautions à prendre. Au cas où cet avis n'a pas été consigné  sur la lettre de voiture, il appartient à l'expéditeur ou au  destinataire de faire la preuve, par tous autres moyens, que  le transporteur a eu connaissance de la nature exacte du  danger que présentait le transport desdites marchandises.
2. Les marchandises dangereuses qui n'auraient pas été connues  comme telles par le transporteur dans les conditions prévues  au paragraphe 1 du présent article peuvent à tout moment et en  tout lieu être déchargées, détruites ou rendues inoffensives  par le transporteur, et ce sans aucune indemnité; l'expéditeur  est en outre responsable de tous frais et dommages résultant  de leur remise au transport ou de leur transport.
Article 23
1. Quand, en vertu des dispositions de la présente Convention,  une indemnité pour perte totale ou partielle de la marchandise  est mise à la charge du transporteur, cette indemnité est cal-
culée d'après la valeur de la marchandise au lieu et à  l'époque de la prise en charge.
2. La valeur de la marchandise est déterminée d'après le cours  en bourse ou, à défaut, d'après le prix courant sur le marché  ou, à défaut de l'un et de l'autre, d'après la valeur usuelle  des marchandises de même nature et qualité.
3. Toutefois, l'indemnité ne peut dépasser 8,33 unités de  compte par kilogramme du poids brut manquant.
4. Sont en outre remboursés le prix du transport, les droits,  de douane et les autres frais encourus à l'occasion du trans-
port de la marchandise, en totalité en cas de perte totale, et  au prorata en cas de perte partielle; d'autres dommages-in-
térêts ne sont pas dus.
5. En cas de retard, si l'ayant droit prouve qu'un préjudice  en est résulté, le transporteur est tenu de payer pour ce  préjudice une indemnité qui ne peut pas dépasser le prix du  transport.
6. Des indemnités plus élevées ne peuvent être réclamées qu'en  cas de déclaration de la valeur de la marchandise ou de dé-
claration d'intérêt spécial à la livraison, conformément aux  articles 24 et 26.
7. L'unité de compte mentionnée dans la présente Convention  est le Droit de tirage spécial tel que défini par le Fonds  monétaire international. Le montant visé au paragraphe 3 du  présent article est converti dans la monnaie nationale de  l'Etat dont relève le tribunal saisi du litige sur la base de  la valeur de cette monnaie à la date du jugement ou à la date  adoptée d'un commun accord par les parties. La valeur, en  Droit de tirage spécial, de la monnaie nationale d'un Etat qui  est membre du Fonds monétaire international, est calculée  selon la méthode d'évaluation appliquée par le Fonds monétaire  international à la date en question pour ses propres  opérations et transactions. La valeur, en Droit de tirage spé-
cial, de la monnaie nationale d'un Etat qui n'est pas membre  du Fonds monétaire international, est calculée de la façon  déterminée par cet Etat.
8. Toutefois, un Etat qui n'est pas membre du Fonds monétaire  international et dont la législation ne permet pas d'appliquer  les dispositions du paragraphe 7 du présent article peut, au  moment de la ratification du Protocole à la CMR ou de  l'adhésion à celui-ci, ou à tout moment ultérieur déclarer que  la limite de la responsabilité prévue au paragraphe 3 du  présent article et applicable sur son territoire est fixée à 
25 unités monétaires. L'unité monétaire dont il est question  dans le présent paragraphe correspond à 10/31 de gramme d'or  au titre de neuf cents millièmes de fin. La conversion en mon-
naie nationale du montant indiqué dans le présent paragraphe  s'effectue conformément à la législation de l'Etat concerné.
9. Le calcul mentionné à la dernière phrase du paragraphe 7,  et la conversion mentionnée au paragraphe 8, du présent  article doivent être faits de façon à exprimer en monnaie  nationale de l'Etat la même valeur réelle, dans la mesure du  possible, que celle exprimée en unités du compte au paragraphe 
3 du présent article. Lors du dépôt d'un instrument visé à  l'article 3 du Protocole à la CMR et chaque fois qu'un  changement se produit dans leur méthode de calcul ou dans la  valeur de leur monnaie nationale par rapport à l'unité de  compte ou à l'unité monétaire, les Etats communiquent au  Secrétaire général de l'Organisation des Nations Unies leur  méthode de calcul conformément au paragraphe 7, ou les résul-
tats de la conversion conformément au paragraphe 8, du présent  article, selon le cas.
Article 24
L'expéditeur peut déclarer dans la lettre de voiture, contre  paiement d'un supplément de prix à convenir, une valeur de la  marchandise excédant la limite mentionnée au paragraphe 3 de  l'article 23 et, dans ce cas, le montant déclaré se substitue 
à cette limite.
Article 25
1. En cas d'avarie, le transporteur paie le montant de la  dépréciation calculée d'après la valeur de la marchandise  fixée conformément à l'article 23, paragraphes 1, 2 et 4.
2. Toutefois, l'indemnité ne peut dépasser :
a) si la totalité de l'expédition est dépréciée par l'avarie,  le chiffre qu'elle aurait atteint en cas de perte totale;
b) si une partie seulement de l'expédition est dépréciée par  l'avarie, le chiffre qu'elle aurait atteint en cas de perte de  la partie dépréciée.
Article 26
1. L'expéditeur peut fixer, en l'inscrivant à la lettre de  voiture, et contre paiement d'un supplément de prix à  convenir, le montant d'un intérêt spécial à la livraison, pour  le cas de perte ou d'avarie et pour celui de dépassement du  délai convenu.
2. S'il y a eu déclaration d'intérêt spécial à la livraison,  il peut être réclamé, indépendamment des indemnités prévues  aux articles 23, 24 et 25, et à concurrence du montant de  l'intérêt déclaré, une indemnité égale au dommage supplémen-
taire dont la preuve est apportée.
Article 27
1. L'ayant droit peut demander les intérêts de l'indemnité.  Ces intérêts, calculés à raison de 5 pour 100 l'an, courent du  jour de la réclamation adressée par écrit au transporteur ou,  s'il n'y a pas eu de réclamation, du jour de la demande en  justice.
2. Lorsque les éléments qui servent de base au calcul de  l'indemnité ne sont pas exprimés dans la monnaie du pays où le  paiement est réclamé, la conversion est faite d'après le cours  du jour et du lieu du paiement de l'indemnité.
Article 28
1. Lorsque, d'après la loi applicable, la perte, l'avarie ou  le retard survenu au cours d'un transport soumis à la présente  Convention peut donner lieu à une réclamation extra-
contractuelle, le transporteur peut se prévaloir des disposi-
tions de la présente Convention qui excluent sa responsabilité  ou qui déterminent ou limitent les indemnités dues.
2. Lorsque la responsabilité extracontractuelle pour perte,  avarie ou retard d'une des personnes dont le transporteur  répond aux termes de l'article 3 est mise en cause, cette per-
sonne peut également se prévaloir des dispositions de la  présente Convention qui excluent la responsabilité du  transporteur ou qui déterminent ou limitent les indemnités  dues.
Article 29
1. Le transporteur n'a pas le droit de se prévaloir des dis-
positions du présent chapitre qui excluent ou limitent sa  responsabilité ou qui renversent le fardeau de la preuve, si  le dommage provient de son dol ou d'une faute qui lui est  imputable et qui, d'après la loi de la juridiction saisie, est  considérée comme équivalente au dol.
2. Il en est de même si le dal ou la faute est le fait des  préposés du transporteur ou de toutes autres personnes aux  services desquelles il recourt pour l'exécution du transport  lorsque ces préposés ou ces autres personnes agissent dans  l'exercice de leurs fonctions. Dans ce cas, ces préposés ou  ces autres personnes n'ont pas davantage le droit de se préva-
loir, en ce qui concerne leur responsabilité personnelle, des  dispositions du présent chapitre visées au paragraphe 1.
CHAPITRE V
Réclamations et actions
Article 30
1. Si le destinataire a pris livraison de la marchandise sans  qu'il en ait constaté l'état contradictoirement avec le trans-
porteur ou sans qu'il ait, au plus tard au moment de la  livraison s'il s'agit de pertes ou avaries apparentes, ou dans  les sept jours à dater de la livraison, dimanche et jours  fériés non compris, lorsqu'il s'agit de pertes ou avaries non  apparentes, adressé des réserves au transporteur indiquant la  nature générale de la perte on de l'avarie, il est présumé,  jusqu'à preuve contraire, avoir reçu la marchandise dans  l'état décrit dans la lettre de voiture. Les réserves visées  ci-dessus doivent être faites par écrit lorsqu'il s'agit de  pertes ou avaries non apparentes.
2. Lorsque l'état de la marchandise a été constaté contra-
dictoirement par le destinataire et le transporteur, la preuve  contraire au résultat de cette constatation ne peut être faite  que s'il s'agit de pertes ou avaries non apparentes et si le  destinataire a adressé des réserves écrites au transporteur  dans les sept jours, dimanche et jours fériés non compris, à  dater de cette constatation.
3. Un retard à la livraison ne peut donner lieu à indemnité  que si une réserve a été adressée par écrit dans le délai de 
21 jours à dater de la mise de la marchandise à la disposition  du destinataire.
4. La date de livraison ou, selon le cas, celle de la con-
statation ou celle de la mise à disposition n'est pas comptée  dans les délais prévus au présent article.
5. Le transporteur et le destinataire se donnent réciproque-
ment toutes facilités raisonnables pour les constatations et  vérifications utiles.
Article 31
1. Pour tous litiges auxquels donnent lieu les transports  soumis à la présente Convention, le demandeur peut saisir, en  dehors des juridictions des pays contractants désignées d'un  commun accord par les parties, les juridictions du pays sur Je  territoire duquel :
a) le défendeur a sa résidence habituelle, son siège principal  ou la succursale ou l'agence par l'intermédiaire de laquelle  le contrat de transport a été conclu, ou
b) le lieu de la prise en charge de la marchandise ou celui  prévu pour la livraison est situé,
et ne peut saisir que ces juridictions.
2. Lorsque dans un litige visé au paragraphe premier du  présent article une action est en instance devant une  juridiction compétente aux termes de ce paragraphe, ou lorsque  dans un tel litige un jugement a été prononcé par une telle  juridiction, il ne peut être intenté aucune nouvelle action  pour la même cause entre les mêmes parties a moins que la  décision de la juridiction devant laquelle la première action  a été intentée ne soit pas susceptible d'être exécutée dans le  pays où la nouvelle action est intentée.
3. Lorsque dans un litige visé au paragraphe 1 du présent  article un jugement rendu par une juridiction d'un pays  contractant est devenu exécutoire dans ce pays, il devient 
également exécutoire dans chacun des autres pays contractants  aussitôt après accomplissement des formalités prescrites à cet  effet dans le pays intéressé. Ces formalités ne peuvent  comporter aucune revision de l'affaire.
4. Les dispositions du paragraphe 3 du présent article s'app-
liquent aux jugements contradictoires, aux jugements par dé-
faut et aux transactions judiciaires mais ne s'appliquent ni  aux jugements qui ne sont exécutoires que par provision, ni  aux condamnations en dommages et intérêts qui seraient pro-
noncés en sus des dépens contre un demandeur en raison du  rejet total ou partiel de sa demande.
5. Il ne peut être exigé de caution de ressortissants de pays  contractants, ayant leur domicile ou un établissement dans un  de ces pays, pour assurer le paiement des dépens à l'occasion  des actions en justice auxquelles donnent lieu les transports  soumis à la présente Convention.
Article 32
1. Les actions auxquelles peuvent donner lieu les transports  soumis à la présente Convention sont prescrites dans le délai  d'un an. Toutefois, dans le cas de dol on de faute considérée,  d'après la loi de la juridiction saisie, comme équivalente au  dol, la prescription est de trois ans. La prescription court :
a) dans le cas de perte partielle, d'avarie ou de retard, à  partir du jour où la marchandise a été livrée;
b) dans le cas de perte totale, à partir du trentième jour  après l'expiration du délai convenu ou, s'il n'a pas été  convenu de délai, à partir du soixantième jour après la prise  en charge de la marchandise par le transporteur;
c) dans tous les autres cas, à partir de l'expiration d'un  délai de trois mois à dater de la conclusion du contrat de  transport.
Le jour indiqué cidessus comme point de départ de la  prescription n'est pas compris dans le délai.
2. Une réclamation écrite suspend la prescription jusqu'au  jour où le transporteur repousse la réclamation par écrit et  restitue les pièces qui y étaient jointes. En cas  d'acceptation partielle de la réclamation, la prescription ne  reprend son cours que pour la partie de la réclamation qui  reste litigieuse. La preuve de la réception de la réclamation  ou de la réponse et de la restitution des pièces est à la  charge de la partie qui invoque ce fait. Les réclamations  ultérieures ayant le même objet ne suspendent pas la  prescription.
3. Sous réserve des dispositions du paragraphe 2 ci-dessus, la  suspension de la prescription est régie par la loi de la  juridiction saisie. Il en est de même en ce qui concerne  l'interruption de la prescription.
4. L'action prescrite ne peut plus être exercée, même sous  forme de demande reconventionnelle ou d'exception.
Article 33
Le contrat de transport peut contenir une clause attribuant  compétence à un tribunal arbitral à condition que cette clause  prévoie que le tribunal arbitral appliquera la présente  Convention.
CHAPITRE VI
Dispositions relatives au transport effectué par transporteurs  successifs
Article 34
Si un transport régi par un contrat unique est exécuté par des  transporteurs routiers successifs, chacun de ceux-ci assume la  responsabilité de l'exécution du transport total, le second  transporteur et chacun des transporteurs suivants devenant, de  par leur acceptation de la marchandise et de la lettre de  voiture, parties au contrat, aux conditions de la lettre de  voiture.
Article 35
1. Le transporteur qui accepte la marchandise du transporteur  précédent remet à celui-ci un reçu daté et signé. Il doit  porter son nom et son adresse sur le deuxième exemplaire de la  lettre de voiture. S'il y a lieu, il appose sur cet  exemplaire, ainsi que sur le reçu, des réserves analogues à  celles qui sont prévues à l'article 8, paragraphe 2.
2. Les dispositions de l'article 9 s'appliquent aux relations  entre transporteurs successifs.
Article 36
A moins qu'il ne s'agisse d'une demande reconventionnelle ou  d'une exception formulée dans une instance relative à une de-
mande fondée sur le même contrat de transport, l'action en  responsabilité pour perte, avarie ou retard ne peut être  dirigée que contre le premier transporteur, le dernier  transporteur, ou le transporteur qui exécutait la partie du  transport au cours de laquelle s'est produit le fait ayant  causé la perte, l'avarie ou le retard l'action peut être  dirigée à la fois contre plusieurs de ces transporteurs.
Article 37
Le transporteur qui a payé une indemnité en vertu des  dispositions de la présente Convention a le droit d'exercer un  recours en principal, intérêts et frais contre les  transporteurs qui ont participé à l'exécution du contrat de  transport, conformément aux dispositions suivantes:
a) le transporteur par le fait duquel le dommage a été causé  doit seul supporter l'indemnité, qu'il l'ait payée luimême ou  qu'elle ait été payée par un autre transporteur;
b) lorsque le dommage a été causé par le fait de deux ou  plusieurs transporteurs, chacun d'eux doit payer un montant  proportionnel à sa part de responsabilité; si l'évaluation des  parts de responsabilité est impossible, chacun d'eux est  responsable proportionnellement à la part de rémunération du  transport qui lui revient;
c) si l'on ne peut déterminer quels sont ceux des trans-
porteurs auxquels la responsabilité est imputable, la charge  de l'indemnité due est répartie, dans la proportion fixée en  b), entre tous les transporteurs.
Article 38
Si l'un des transporteurs est insolvable, la part lui in-
combant et qu'il n'a pas payée est répartie entre tous les  autres transporteurs proportionnellement à leur rémunération.
Article 39
1. Le transporteur contre lequel est exercé un des recours  prévus aux articles 37 et 38 n'est pas recevable à contester  le bien-fondé du paiement effectué par le transporteur exer-
çant le recours, lorsque l'indemnité à été fixée par décision  de justice, pourvu qu'il ait été dûment informé du procès et  qu'il ait été à même d'y intervenir.
2. Le transporteur qui veut exercer son recours peut le former  devant le tribunal compétent du pays dans lequel l'un des  transporteurs intéressés a sa résidence habituelle, son siège  principal ou la succursale ou l'agence par l'entremise de  laquelle le contrat de transport a été conclu. Le recours peut 
être dirigé dans une seule et même instance contre tous les  transporteurs intéressés.
3. Les dispositions de l'article 31, paragraphes 3 et 4,  s'appliquent aux jugements rendus sur les recours prévus aux  articles 37 et 38.
4. Les dispositions de l'article 32 sont applicables aux re-
cours entre transporteurs. La prescription court, toutefois,  soit à partir du jour d'une décision de justice définitive  fixant l'indemnité à payer en vertu des dispositions de la  présente Convention, soit, au cas où il n'y aurait pas eu de  telle décision, à partir du jour du paiement effectif.
Article 40
Les transporteurs sont libres de convenir entre eux de  dispositions dérogeant aux articles 37 et 38.
CHAPITRE VII
Nullité des stipulations contraires
a la Convention
Article 41
1. Sous réserve des dispositions de l'article 40, est nulle et  de nul effet toute stipulation qui, directement ou in-
directement, dérogerait aux dispositions de la présente  Convention. La nullité de telles stipulations n'entraîne pas  la nullité des autres dispositions du contrat.
2. En particulier, seraient nulles toute clause par laquelle  le transporteur se ferait céder le bénéfice de l'assurance de  la marchandise ou toute autre clause analogue, ainsi que toute  clause déplaçant le fardeau de la preuve.
KAPITEL 1
Tillämpningsområde
Artikel 1
1. Denna konvention tillämpas på varje avtal om godsbefordran  med fordon på väg mot betalning, när orten för godsets motta-
gande till befordran och bestämmelseorten, såsom de angivits i  avtalet, är belägna i skilda stater, av vilka åtminstone den  ena är en fördragsslutande stat. Vad nu sagts gäller oavsett  parternas hemvist och nationalitet.
2. I denna konvention förstås med "fordon" sådana motorfordon,  sammansatta fordon, släpfordon och påhängsvagnar, som avses i  artikel 4 i konventionen den 19 september 1949 rörande väg-
trafik.
3. Denna konvention gäller även när befordran som faller inom  dess tillämpningsområde utförs av stater eller statliga  inrättningar eller organisationer.
4. Denna konvention tillämpas inte
a) på befordran, som utförs i enlighet med internationella  överenskommelser om postbefordran;
b) på begravningstransport;
c) på befordran av flyttsaker.
5. De Fördragsslutande Parterna förbinder sig att inte genom  särskilda överenskommelser mellan två eller flera av dem  avtala om annan ändring i denna konvention än som avser att  från dess tillämpning undanta gemensam gränstrafik eller att  för befordran, som uteslutande utförs inom deras territorier,  medge användning av fraktsedel som är bärare av rätt till  godset.
Artikel 2
1. Fraktas fordon med pålastat gods under del av befordringen  till sjöss, med järnväg, på inre vattenväg eller med  luftfartyg utan att godset - frånsett fall då artikel 14 är  tillämplig - lossas från fordonet, tillämpas denna konvention  trots det på befordringen i dess helhet. I den mån det visas,  att förlust, minskning eller skada eller dröjsmål med godsets  utlämnande, som inträffat medan godset befordrades på annat  sätt än på väg, inte orsakats av åtgärd eller underlåtenhet av  vägfraktföraren utan härrör av händelse, som kunnat inträffa  endast under sådan befordran och på grund av att befordringen  skett på annat sätt än på väg, bestäms vägfraktförarens ansva-
righet inte enligt denna konvention utan på det sätt på vilket  den andre fraktförarens ansvarighet skulle ha bestämts, om  avtal slutits mellan avsändaren och sistnämnde fraktförare om  befordran enbart av godset i enlighet med de tvingande lag-
regler, som gäller för befordran av gods med det ifrågavarande  transportmedlet. Saknas sådana regler, bestäms emellertid väg-
fraktförarens ansvarighet enligt denna konvention.
2. Är vägfraktföraren också fraktförare med avseende på det  andra transportmedlet, bestäms vägfraktförarens ansvarighet i  enlighet med första stycket som om dennes verksamhet som väg-
fraktförare och dennes verksamhet som fraktförare med avseende  på det andra transportmedlet utövats av två skilda personer.
KAPITEL II
Personer för vilka fraktföraren ansvarar
Artikel 3
Vid tillämpning av denna konvention är fraktföraren ansvarig  för vad en anställd eller annan som fraktföraren anlitar för  befordringen företar eller underlåter i tjänsten eller för  uppdragets fullgörande. Fraktföraren svarar därvid såsom för  egen handling eller underlåtenhet.
KAPITEL III
Slutande och fullgörande av fraktavtal
Artikel 4
Fraktavtalet ska bekräftas genom fraktsedel. Att fraktsedel  inte har upprättats eller inte har föreskrivet innehåll eller  har gått förlorad inverkar inte på avtalets existens eller  giltighet, och avtalet förblir underkastat bestämmelserna i  denna konvention
Artikel 5
1. Fraktsedeln ska upprättas i tre originalexemplar, vilka ska  undertecknas av avsändaren och fraktföraren. Underskrifterna  får vara tryckta eller ersatta med avsändarens och fraktför-
arens stämplar, om lagen i den stat där fraktsedeln upprättas  tillåter detta. Det första exemplaret överlämnas till avsänd-
aren, det andra åtföljer godset och det tredje behålls av  fraktföraren.
2. Ska godset lastas på skilda fordon eller är det fråga om  olika godsslag eller om skilda partier, har avsändaren eller  fraktföraren rätt att begära, att skilda fraktsedlar upprättas  för varje fordon, godsslag eller parti.
Artikel 6
1. Fraktsedeln ska innehålla följande uppgifter:
a) ort och dag för upprättandet;
b) avsändarens namn och adress;
c) fraktförarens namn och adress;
d) ort och dag för godsets mottagande till befordran samt  bestämmelseorten;
e) mottagarens namn och adress;
f) gängse benämning på godsets art och på förpackningssättet  samt, i fråga om farligt gods, dettas allmänt vedertagna  benämning;
g) antalet kollin, dessas särskilda märkning och nummer;
h) godsets bruttovikt eller annan uppgift om dess mängd;
i) kostnader hänförliga till befordringen (frakt, tilläggs-
avgifter, tullavgifter och andra kostnader som uppkommer under  tiden från avtalets ingående till godsets utlämnande);
j) erforderliga anvisningar beträffande tull och andra for-
maliteter;
k) meddelande att befordringen är underkastad bestämmelserna i  denna konvention utan hinder av att annat kan vara avtalat.
2. I förekommande fall ska fraktsedeln också innehålla följ-
ande uppgifter:
a) förbud mot omlastning;
b) de kostnader som avsändaren åtar sig att betala;
c) efterkravsbelopp som ska uppbäras vid godsets utlämnande;
d) godsets deklarerade värde samt belopp motsvarande särskilt  intresse av leveransen;
e) avsändarens anvisningar till fraktföraren rörande för-
säkring av godset;
f) avtalad tid inom vilken befordringen ska vara fullgjord;
g) förteckning över handlingar som överlämnas till frakt-
föraren.
3. Parterna får i fraktsedeln införa de ytterligare uppgifter  som de anser påkallade.
Artikel 7
1. Avsändaren svarar för all kostnad och skada som fraktfö-
raren åsamkas till följd av oriktighet eller ofullständighet  hos
a) uppgifter som avses i artikel 6 första stycket b), d), e),  f), g), h) och j);
b) uppgifter som avses i artikel 6 andra stycket;
c) annan uppgift eller anvisning som avsändaren lämnar för  fraktsedelns upprättande eller för att införas i denna.
2. Har fraktföraren på avsändarens begäran i fraktsedeln  infört uppgift eller anvisning som anges i första stycket, an-
ses fraktföraren ha handlat för avsändarens räkning, om annat  inte visas.
3. Innehåller fraktsedeln inte meddelande som avses i  artikel 6 första stycket k), svarar fraktföraren för all  kostnad och skada som därigenom åsamkas den som har rätt att  förfoga över godset.
Artikel 8
1. Vid mottagandet av godset ska fraktföraren undersöka
a) riktigheten av fraktsedelns uppgifter om antalet kollin  samt om dessas märkning och nummer;
b) godsets och förpackningens synliga tillstånd.
2. Kan fraktföraren inte med skäliga medel undersöka  riktigheten av de i första stycket under a) nämnda  uppgifterna, ska denne på fraktsedeln teckna förbehåll om  detta och ange grunden för förbehållet. Fraktföraren ska också  ange grunden för varje förbehåll som denne gör i fråga om  godsets och förpackningens synliga tillstånd. Sådant förbehåll  gäller inte mot avsändaren, om denne inte uttryckligen har  godkänt det på fraktsedeln.
3. Avsändaren har rätt att begära att fraktföraren undersöker  godsets bruttovikt eller på annat sätt angivna mängd.  Avsändaren kan även kräva en undersökning av kollinas  innehåll. Fraktföraren har rätt att kräva ersättning för kost-
naderna för sådan undersökning. Resultatet av undersökningen  ska antecknas på fraktsedeln.
Artikel 9
1. Fraktsedeln ska, såvida annat inte visas, gälla som bevis  om att fraktavtal slutits, om avtalsvillkoren och om  fraktförarens mottagande av godset.
2. Om fraktföraren inte har tecknat förbehåll på fraktsedeln  samt angivit grunden för detta, ska, om annat inte visas,  godset och dess förpackning antas ha varit i gott synligt  tillstånd, när fraktföraren mottog godset samt antalet kollin,  dessas märkning och nummer antas ha överensstämt med uppgift-
erna i fraktsedeln.
Artikel 10
Avsändaren svarar gentemot fraktföraren för skada på person,  materiel eller annat gods och kostnader som uppkommit till  följd av bristfällig förpackning av godset, om inte bristfäl-
ligheten var synlig eller känd för fraktföraren, när denne  mottog godset, och fraktföraren underlät att göra förbehåll om  det.
Artikel 11
1. Till uppfyllande av de tullbestämmelser och andra offent-
liga föreskrifter som ska iakttas innan godset utlämnas till  mottagaren ska avsändaren foga nödvändiga handlingar till  fraktsedeln eller ställa sådana handlingar till fraktförarens  förfogande samt lämna fraktföraren de upplysningar som denne  begär.
2. Fraktföraren är inte skyldig att undersöka, huruvida dessa  handlingar och upplysningar är riktiga eller fullständiga.  Avsändaren svarar gentemot fraktföraren för skada som uppkom-
mer till följd av att sådan handling eller upplysning saknas  eller är ofullständig eller oriktig, utom då fel eller försum-
melse ligger fraktföraren till last.
3. Fraktföraren bär samma ansvar som en kommissionär för  följderna av att de handlingar som är omnämnda i fraktsedeln  och som åtföljer denna eller överlämnats till fraktföraren går  förlorade eller används oriktigt. Ersättningen som ska utges  av fraktföraren får dock inte överstiga vad som skulle ha  utgått, om godset gått förlorat.
Artikel 12
1. Avsändaren har rätt att förfoga över godset, särskilt genom  att begära hos fraktföraren att godset stoppas under beford-
ringen, att bestämmelseorten ändras eller att godset lämnas ut  till annan än den som angivits i fraktsedeln.
2. Denna rätt upphör, när det andra exemplaret av fraktsedeln  överlämnas till mottagaren eller denne gör gällande sin rätt  enligt artikel 13 första stycket. Från denna tidpunkt ska  fraktföraren rätta sig efter mottagarens anvisningar.
3. Rätten att förfoga över godset tillkommer dock mottagaren  så snart fraktsedeln upprättats, om avsändaren infört  föreskrift om detta i fraktsedeln.
4. Har mottagaren under utövande av sin rätt att förfoga över  godset gett anvisning om att det ska lämnas ut till annan  person, har denne inte rätt att anvisa annan mottagare.
5. Förfoganderätten får utövas endast under följande villkor:
a) att avsändaren eller, i fall som avses i tredje stycket,  mottagare som vill utöva denna rätt företer det första exem-
plaret av fraktsedeln, på vilket de nya anvisningarna till  fraktföraren tecknats, samt gottgör fraktföraren för kostnad  och skada som följer av anvisningarnas utförande;
b) att utförandet av de nya anvisningarna är möjligt vid den  tidpunkt när de når den som ska efterkomma dem och varken  hindrar den normala utövningen av fraktförarens verksamhet  eller medför skada för avsändare eller mottagare av annan  sändning;
c) att anvisningarna inte leder till delning av sändningen.
6. Kan fraktföraren på grund av bestämmelserna i femte stycket  b) inte följa en anvisning, ska fraktföraren omedelbart under-
rätta den som meddelat anvisningen.
7. Fraktförare som underlåtit att följa anvisning, vilken  meddelats enligt bestämmelserna i denna artikel, eller som  utfört sådan anvisning utan att begära, att det första ex-
emplaret av fraktsedeln företes, är ansvarig gentemot den som  därigenom åsamkats skada.
Artikel 13
1. Sedan godset kommit fram till bestämmelseorten får  mottagaren begära att fraktföraren mot kvitto lämnar ut det  andra exemplaret av fraktsedeln samt godset till denne. Har  godset gått förlorat eller har det inte kommit fram vid ut-
gången av den i artikel 19 nämnda fristen, äger mottagaren  gentemot fraktföraren i eget namn göra gällande de rättigheter  som följer av fraktavtalet.
2. Mottagare som gör gällande den rätt som denne har enligt  första stycket, ska betala det belopp som framgår av frakt-
sedeln. Vid tvist om detta är fraktföraren inte skyldig att  lämna ut godset, om mottagaren inte ställer säkerhet.
Artikel 14
1. Är eller blir det av någon orsak före godsets ankomst till  bestämmelseorten omöjligt att fullgöra avtalet på det sätt som  fraktsedeln anger, ska fraktföraren begära anvisning från den  som enligt artikel 12 har rätt att förfoga över godset.
2. Om emellertid omständigheterna medger att befordringen  utförs på annat sätt än fraktsedeln anger och fraktföraren  inte har kunnat inom skälig tid erhålla anvisning från den som  enligt artikel 12 har rätt att förfoga över godset, åligger  det fraktföraren att vidta de åtgärder som synes fraktföraren  bäst tillgodose dennes intresse.
Artikel 15
1. Föreligger efter godsets ankomst till bestämmelseorten  hinder för dess utlämnande, ska fraktföraren begära anvisning  från avsändaren. Vägrar mottagaren att ta emot godset, har av-
sändaren rätt att förfoga över detta utan att förete det  första exemplaret av fraktsedeln.
2. Även om mottagaren har vägrat att ta emot godset har denne  rätt att begära dess utlämnande så länge fraktföraren inte har  fått annan anvisning från avsändaren.
3. Uppstår hinder för utlämnandet efter det att mottagaren med  utövande av sin rätt enligt artikel 12 tredje stycket gett  anvisning om att godset ska lämnas ut till annan, ska vid  tillämpning av första och andra styckena av förevarande artik-
el mottagaren anses som avsändare och den andre som mottagare.
Artikel 16
1. Fraktföraren har rätt till ersättning för kostnad som denne  haft för att inhämta anvisning eller efterkomma mottagen an-
visning, om kostnaden inte uppkommit till följd av frakt-
förarens fel eller försummelse.
2. I fall som avses i artikel 14 första stycket eller artik-
el 15 har fraktföraren rätt att genast lossa godset för dens  räkning som har rätt att förfoga över godset. Efter lossningen  ska befordringen anses avslutad. Fraktföraren ska därefter  förvara godset åt den andre. Fraktföraren har dock rätt att  anförtro godset åt tredje man och svarar i sådant fall endast  för att denne väljs med tillbörlig omsorg. Godset häftar  alltjämt för de belopp som framgår av fraktsedeln samt för  varje annan kostnad.
3. Fraktföraren har rätt att sälja godset utan att invänta an-
visning från den som har rätt att förfoga över det, om godset  är utsatt för snar förstörelse eller dess tillstånd ger anled-
ning därtill eller kostnaden för dess förvaring inte står i  rimligt förhållande till dess värde. Fraktföraren har också  rätt att i annat fall sälja godset, om denne inte inom skälig  tid från den som har rätt att förfoga över godset erhållit  annan anvisning som fraktföraren skäligen får anses skyldig  att efterkomma.
4. Har godset sålts med tillämpning av denna artikel, ska  köpeskillingen efter avdrag för de kostnader för vilka godset  häftar tillställas den som ägde förfoga över godset.  Överstiger dessa kostnader köpeskillingen, har fraktföraren  rätt till ersättning för mellanskillnaden.
5. Förfarandet vid försäljning bestäms av lag eller sedvana på  den ort där godset finns.
KAPITEL IV
Fraktförarens ansvarighet
Artikel 17
1. Fraktföraren är ansvarig för sådan förlust eller minskning  av godset och sådan skada på det som inträffar under tiden  mellan godsets mottagande till befordran och dess utlämnande  samt för dröjsmål med utlämnandet.
2. Fraktföraren är dock fri från ansvarighet, om förlusten,  minskningen, skadan eller dröjsmålet orsakats antingen av fel  eller försummelse av den berättigade eller av sådan anvisning  från denne som inte föranletts av fraktförarens fel eller  försummelse eller av godsets bristfälliga beskaffenhet eller  av förhållande, som fraktföraren inte kunnat undvika och vars  följder fraktföraren inte kunnat förebygga.
3. Fraktföraren kan inte till befrielse från ansvarighet åbe-
ropa vare sig bristfällighet hos det fordon som fraktföraren  använder för befordringen eller fel eller försummelse av den  från vilken fraktföraren kan ha hyrt fordonet eller anställda  eller medhjälpare som den sistnämnde anlitar.
4. Under de förutsättningar som anges i artikel 18 andra till  femte styckena är fraktföraren fri från ansvarighet, om för-
lusten, minskningen eller skadan härrör av den särskilda risk  som är förbunden med ett eller flera av följande förhållanden:
a) användning av öppet fordon utan presenning, när detta  transportsätt uttryckligen avtalats och angivits i frakt-
sedeln;
b) felande eller bristfällig förpackning av gods, som på grund  av sin beskaffenhet är utsatt för minskning eller skada när  det inte är förpackat eller är bristfälligt förpackat;
c) handhavande, lastning, stuvning eller lossning av godset  som ombesörjts av avsändaren, mottagaren eller person, som  handlar för avsändarens eller mottagarens räkning;
d) sådan beskaffenhet hos visst slag av gods som medför att  godset är särskilt utsatt för fara att gå förlorat, minskas  eller skadas, i synnerhet genom bräckning, rost, inre själv-
förstöring, uttorkning, läckage, normalt svinn eller angrepp  av skadeinsekter eller gnagare;
e) ofullständig eller felaktig märkning eller numrering av  kollina;
f) befordran av levande djur.
5. Är fraktföraren enligt denna artikel inte ansvarig för viss  eller vissa av de omständigheter som medverkat till förlusten,  minskningen, skadan eller dröjsmålet, svarar denne endast i  den utsträckning som de förhållanden för vilka fraktföraren  enligt denna artikel är ansvarig har medverkat till förlusten,  minskningen, skadan eller dröjsmålet.
Artikel 18
1. Bevisskyldigheten för att förlust, minskning, skada eller  dröjsmål orsakats av förhållande som anges i artikel 17 andra  stycket åvilar fraktföraren.
2. Visar fraktföraren att förlust, minskning eller skada att  döma av föreliggande omständigheter kan härröra av en eller  flera av de särskilda risker som nämns i artikel 17 fjärde  stycket, ska den antas härröra därav. Motparten har dock rätt  att föra bevisning om att förlusten, minskningen eller skadan  i verkligheten inte vare sig helt eller delvis är att  tillskriva sådan risk.
3. Antagande enligt andra stycket gäller inte i fall som avses  i artikel 17 fjärde stycket a), när det är fråga om onormalt  stor minskning eller om förlust av hela kollin.
4. Sker befordringen med fordon som är utrustat med särskild  anordning för att skydda godset mot inverkan av värme, kyla,  temperaturväxlingar eller luftens fuktighet, har fraktföraren  inte rätt att till befrielse från ansvarighet åberopa  bestämmelsen i artikel 17 fjärde stycket d), om fraktföraren  inte visar att alla åtgärder blivit vidtagna, som med hänsyn  till omständigheterna åvilar denne i fråga om val, underhåll  och användning av anordningen, samt att de särskilda anvis-
ningar som kan ha meddelats fraktföraren har följts.
5. Fraktföraren har inte rätt att till befrielse från ansvar-
ighet åberopa bestämmelsen i artikel 17 fjärde stycket f), om  fraktföraren inte visar att alla åtgärder blivit vidtagna, som  med hänsyn till omständigheterna normalt åvilar denne, samt  att de särskilda anvisningar som kan ha meddelats fraktföraren  har följts.
Artikel 19
Dröjsmål med utlämnandet föreligger, när godset inte har  lämnats ut inom avtalad tid eller, om särskild tid inte har  avtalats, när tiden för befordringen överskrider vad som med  hänsyn till omständigheterna skäligen bör medges en omsorgs-
full fraktförare. I fråga om dellast ska därvid särskilt  beaktas den tid som krävs, för att i sedvanlig ordning samla  full last.
Artikel 20
1. Om godset inte har lämnats ut inom trettio dagar efter  utgången av avtalad tid eller, om särskild tid inte avtalats,  inom sextio dagar från det fraktföraren mottog godset till  befordran, äger den berättigade anse godset som förlorat utan  att behöva förebringa annan bevisning om detta.
2. Den berättigade kan, när denne tar emot kompensation för  att godset har gått förlorat, skriftligen begära att  omedelbart bli underrättad om godset skulle komma till rätta  inom loppet av ett år från det att ersättningen betalades ut.  Skriftlig bekräftelse på att sådan begäran framställts ska  lämnas till den berättigade.
3. Inom trettio dagar från det att den berättigade har fått en  sådan underrättelse som nu sagts kan denne begära att godset  lämnas ut till honom eller henne mot betalning av de belopp  som framgår av fraktsedeln och återbetalning av den  kompensation som har erhållits, minskad med den kostnads-
ersättning som kan ha inräknats däri men utan inskränkning i  den rätt till kompensation för dröjsmål med utlämnandet som  kan föreligga enligt artikel 23 och, i förekommande fall,  artikel 26.
4. Framställs inte en begäran enligt andra stycket eller  lämnas inte någon anvisning inom den i tredje stycket nämnda  trettiodagarsfristen eller kommer godset inte tillrätta förrän  mer än ett år förflutit från det att ersättningen betalades  ut, har fraktföraren rätt att förfoga över godset i överens-
stämmelse med lagen på den ort där godset finns.
Artikel 21
Har godset lämnats ut till mottagaren utan uttagande av efter-
krav, som fraktföraren skulle ha uppburit enligt fraktavtalet,  är fraktföraren skyldig att hålla avsändaren skadeslös intill  efterkravets belopp, utan inskränkning av fraktförarens rätt  att rikta krav mot mottagaren.
Artikel 22
1. Överlämnar avsändaren gods av farlig beskaffenhet till  fraktföraren, ska avsändaren underrätta fraktföraren om farans  särskilda art och, om nödvändigt, ange de försiktighetsmått  som ska vidtas. Har sådan underrättelse inte tagits in i  fraktsedeln, ankommer det på avsändaren eller mottagaren att  på annat sätt styrka, att fraktföraren hade kännedom om den  särskilda arten av den fara som var förbunden med befordringen  av godset.
2. Gods av farlig beskaffenhet som, i den situation som avses  i första stycket, fraktföraren inte kände till var farligt får  fraktföraren när och var som helst lossa, förstöra eller  oskadliggöra utan att bli ersättningsskyldig. Avsändaren är  ansvarig för all kostnad, förlust eller skada som uppkommer  till följd av godsets avlämnande till befordran eller till  följd av dess befordran.
Artikel 23
1. Är fraktföraren på grund av bestämmelserna i denna kon-
vention skyldig att utge ersättning för förlust eller minsk-
ning av gods, beräknas ersättningen efter det värde godset vid  tiden för dess mottagande till befordran hade på den ort där  det mottogs till befordran.
2. Godsets värde bestäms efter börspriset, eller om sådant  pris saknas, efter marknadspriset eller, om inte heller sådant  pris finns, efter det gängse värdet av gods av samma slag och  beskaffenhet.
3. Ersättningen får dock inte överstiga 8,33 beräkningsenheter  per kilogram av förlorad bruttovikt.
4. Här utöver ska frakt, tullavgifter och andra kostnader med  anledning av befordringen återbetalas, till fullo vid förlust  och proportionsvis vid minskning, men annan skada ersätts  inte.
5. Skada till följd av dröjsmål är fraktföraren skyldig att  ersätta intill fraktens belopp.
6. Ytterligare ersättning kan krävas endast om godsets värde  eller särskilt leveransintresse angivits enligt artikel 24  eller artikel 26.
7. Den beräkningsenhet som anges i konventionen är den sär-
skilda dragningsrätten såsom den definieras av Internationella  valutafonden. Det belopp som anges i tredje stycket av denna  artikel ska räknas om till domstolslandets myntslags värde den  dag då domen meddelas eller den dag som parterna kommer  överens om. Värdet av en stats nationella mynt uttryckt i  särskilda dragningsrätter ska, för en stat som är medlem av  Internationella valutafonden, bestämmas enligt den beräknings-
metod som ifrågavarande dag tillämpas av valutafonden för dess  verksamhet och transaktioner. Värdet av en stats nationella  mynt uttryckt i särskilda dragningsrätter ska för en stat som  inte är medlem av Internationella valutafonden beräknas på det  sätt som den staten bestämmer.
8. En stat, som inte är medlem av Internationella valutafonden  och vars lag inte medger att de bestämmelser som anges i  sjunde stycket i denna artikel tillämpas, får dock, vid  ratifikationen av eller anslutningen till protokollet till CMR  eller när som helst därefter, förklara att den ansvarsgräns  som gäller enligt tredje stycket av denna artikel inom dess  område ska vara 25 monetära enheter. Denna monetära enhet mot-
svarar 10/31 gram av guld av 0,900 finhet. Omräkningen av det  belopp som anges i detta stycke ska ske enligt den ifråga-
varande statens lag.
9. Den beräkning som nämns i sista meningen i sjunde stycket  av denna artikel och den omräkning som nämns i åttonde stycket  av denna artikel ska göras så att resultatet i statens natio-
nella mynt så långt som möjligt ger uttryck för samma real-
värde för beloppet utryckt i beräkningsenheter enligt tredje  stycket av denna artikel. När en stat deponerar ett instrument  enligt artikel 3 i protokollet till CMR och varje gång som  beräknings- eller omräkningsmetoden ändras, ska den staten  underrätta Förenta Nationernas generalsekreterare om den metod  för beräkning som staten tillämpar enligt sjunde stycket av  denna artikel respektive om resultatet av omräkningen enligt  åttonde stycket av denna artikel.
Artikel 24
Avsändaren äger mot betalning av överenskommen tilläggsavgift  i fraktsedeln uppge högre värde på godset än som motsvarar det  i artikel 23 tredje stycket föreskrivna ansvarighetsbeloppet,  och i sådant fall gäller det uppgivna värdet i stället som  sådant belopp.
Artikel 25
1. Vid skada på godset ska fraktföraren ersätta värdeminsk-
ningen, beräknad efter det enligt artikel 23 första, andra och  fjärde styckena bestämda värdet av godset.
2. Ersättningen får dock inte överstiga:
a) om hela sändningen minskat i värde till följd av skadan,  det belopp som skulle ha utgått om sändningen gått förlorad;
b) om bara en del av sändningen minskat i värde till följd av  skadan, det belopp som skulle ha utgått, om denna del gått  förlorad.
Artikel 26
1. Avsändaren kan genom anteckning i fraktsedeln och mot  betalning av överenskommen tilläggsavgift fastställa ett be-
lopp, som motsvarar det särskilda intresset av riktigt ut-
lämnande om godset går förlorat, minskas eller skadas eller  avtalad tid för utlämnandet överskrids.
2. Har särskilt leveransintresse uppgivits kan, vid sidan av  ersättning som avses i artiklarna 23, 24 och 25, ersättning  krävas intill beloppet av det uppgivna intresset för den  ytterligare skada som visas ha uppkommit.
Artikel 27
1. Den som är berättigad till ersättning har rätt att kräva  ränta på ersättningsbeloppet. Ränta beräknas efter fem procent  om året och löper från den dag då skriftligt anspråk på  ersättning avsändes till fraktföraren eller, om sådant anspråk  inte framställts, från den dag då talan väcktes.
2. Är belopp som ligger till grund för beräkning av ersättning  inte uttryckt i myntslaget i den stat där betalning krävs, ska  omräkning ske efter den på betalningsdagen gällande kursen på  den ort där betalning sker.
Artikel 28
1. Kan enligt tilllämplig lag förlust, minskning, skada eller  dröjsmål, som har uppkommit under befordran vilken är under-
kastad denna konvention, ge upphov till anspråk på annan grund  än avtal, får fraktföraren åberopa de bestämmelser i denna  konvention som utesluter dennes ansvarighet eller som anger  eller begränsar ersättningens storlek.
2. Framställs på annan grund än avtal anspråk med anledning av  förlust, minskning, skada eller dröjsmål mot person, för  vilken fraktföraren svarar enligt artikel 3, har även en sådan  person rätt att åberopa de bestämmelser i denna konvention som  utesluter fraktförarens ansvarighet eller som anger eller be-
gränsar ersättningens storlek.
Artikel 29
1. Fraktföraren får inte åberopa de bestämmelser i detta  kapitel vilka utesluter eller begränsar fraktförarens ansvar-
ighet eller innebär överflyttning av bevisskyldigheten, om  fraktföraren har orsakat skadan uppsåtligen eller om sådan  vårdslöshet ligger denne till last som likställs med uppsåt  enligt lagen i den stat där talan väckts.
2. Vad nu sagts gäller även vid uppsåt eller vårdslöshet av  någon som är anställd hos fraktföraren eller av annan som  fraktföraren anlitat för befordringen när den anställde hand-
lar i tjänsten eller medhjälparen för uppdragets fullgörande.  I sådant fall får den anställde eller medhjälparen inte heller  med avseende på sin personliga ansvarighet åberopa de bestäm-
melser i detta kapitel vilka nämnts i första stycket.
KAPITEL V
Anmärkningar och väckande av talan
Artikel 30
1. Har mottagaren tagit emot godset utan att ha gemensamt med  fraktföraren undersökt dess tillstånd eller utan att, när  fråga är om synlig minskning eller skada, senast vid ut-
lämnandet, eller, när fråga är om minskning eller skada, som  inte var synlig, inom sju dagar, söndagar och andra allmänna  fridagar oräknade, ha till fraktföraren framställt anmärkning  innefattande en allmän beskrivning av minskningens eller  skadans art, ska mottagaren, om annat inte visas, antas ha  tagit emot godset i det tillstånd som angivits i fraktsedeln.  I fråga om minskning eller skada, som inte var synlig, ska  anmärkningen göras skriftligen.
2. Har mottagaren och fraktföraren gemensamt undersökt godsets  tillstånd får bevisning föras mot vad därvid fastställts  endast när fråga är om minskning eller skada, som inte var  synlig, och mottagaren avsänt skriftlig anmärkning till frakt-
föraren inom sju dagar, söndagar och andra allmänna fridagar  oräknade, från dagen för undersökningen.
3. Ersättning på grund av dröjsmål utgår endast om skriftlig  anmärkning har skickats till fraktföraren inom tjugoen dagar  från den dag då godset ställdes till mottagarens förfogande.
4. Vid beräkning av de tidsfrister som avses i denna artikel  medräknas inte den dag då godset utlämnades eller, i före-
kommande fall, den dag då det blev undersökt eller ställdes  till mottagarens förfogande.
5. Fraktföraren och mottagaren är skyldiga att i skälig  omfattning underlätta för varandra att utföra erforderliga  undersökningar.
Artikel 31
1. Talan rörande befordran som är underkastad denna konvention  får väckas, förutom vid sådan domstol i fördragsslutande stat  som parterna utsett vid domstol i stat, inom vars område
a) svaranden har sitt hemvist, sitt huvudkontor eller den  filial eller agentur genom vars medverkan fraktavtalet  slutits, eller
b) den ort där godset mottogs av fraktföraren eller  bestämmelseorten är belägen,
och får inte väckas vid annan domstol.
2. Är talan som avses i första stycket av denna artikel an-
hängig vid en enligt det stycket behörig domstol eller har  sådan talan avgjorts av sådan domstol, får ny talan inte väck-
as mellan samma parter angående samma sak, om inte avgörandet  av den domstol vid vilken den första talan väcktes inte kan  verkställas i den stat där den nya talan väcks.
3. Sedan dom i tvist som avses i första stycket av denna  artikel meddelats av domstol i fördragsslutande stat och  blivit verkställbar i den staten ska domen vara verkställbar  även i var och en av de övriga fördragsslutande staterna, så  snart de formföreskrifter har blivit uppfyllda som gäller i  den fördragsslutande stat där verkställighet söks. Sådana  formföreskrifter får inte innefatta möjlighet till omprövning  av själva saken.
4. Bestämmelserna i tredje stycket av denna artikel tillämpas  på domar, meddelade efter kontradiktoriskt förfarande, treds-
kodomar och av domstol stadfästa förlikningar men inte på  domar, som är endast interimistiskt verkställbara, eller på  avgöranden, varigenom kärande, som helt eller delvis tappat  målet, ålagts att på grund av detta utge skadestånd utöver  rättegångskostnaden.
5. Säkerhet för kostnad i rättegång med anledning av befordran  som är underkastad denna konvention får inte krävas av sådan  medborgare i fördragsslutande stat som har hemvist eller  driver rörelse med fast driftställe i sådan stat.
Artikel 32
1. Talan rörande befordran som är underkastad denna konvention  ska väckas inom ett år. Grundas talan på uppsåt eller sådan  vårdslöshet som enligt lagen i den stat där talan prövas lik-
ställs med uppsåt, gäller dock en frist om tre år. Pre-
skriptionstiden löper
a) vid minskning, skada eller dröjsmål från dagen då godset  lämnades ut till mottagaren;
b) vid förlust från trettionde dagen efter utgången av avtalad  tid för utlämnandet eller, om särskild tid inte har avtalats,  från sextionde dagen efter det fraktföraren mottog godset till  befordran;
c) i annat fall från utgången av en tid av tre månader från  det att fraktavtalet slöts.
Den dag från vilken tid för talans väckande löper medräknas  inte i tiden.
2. Skriftligt krav medför uppehåll i preskriptionstiden intill  den dag då fraktföraren skriftligen bestrider kravet och  återsänder de handlingar som åtföljt kravet. Medges kravet  delvis, fortsätter preskriptionstiden att löpa endast med  avseende på den del av kravet som kvarstår som tvistig.  Bevisskyldigheten för att krav eller svar därpå mottagits  eller att handlingar återställts vilar på den som påstår  sådant förhållande. Förnyat krav rörande samma sak medför inte  uppehåll i preskriptionstiden.
3. Om annat inte följer av bestämmelserna i andra stycket,  tillämpas i frågor som avser uppehåll i preskriptionstiden  lagen i den stat där talan väckts. Samma lag tillämpas i  frågor som gäller preskriptionsavbrott.
4. Preskriberad fordran kan inte göras gällande genom gen-
käromål eller yrkande om kvittning.
Artikel 33
Fraktavtalet får innehålla bestämmelse om att tvist ska  avgöras av skiljemän, om bestämmelsen föreskriver att skilje-
männen ska tillämpa denna konvention.
KAPITEL VI
Bestämmelser om befordran som utförs av flera fraktförare  efter varandra
Artikel 34
Utförs befordran på grund av ett och samma fraktavtal av flera  vägfraktförare efter varandra, är var och en av dem ansvarig  för utförandet av befordringen i dess helhet. Den andre  fraktföraren och var och en av de följande inträder genom att  ta emot godset och fraktsedeln såsom part i fraktavtalet på de  villkor som anges i fraktsedeln.
Artikel 35
1. Fraktförare, som tar emot godset från föregående frakt-
förare, ska lämna denne ett dagtecknat och underskrivet  kvitto. Han eller hon ska teckna sitt namn och sin adress på  det andra exemplaret av fraktsedeln. Finns anledning till det  ska han eller hon på nämnda exemplar och på kvittot anteckna  förbehåll av den art som avses i artikel 8 andra stycket.
2. Bestämmelserna i artikel 9 tillämpas på förhållandet mellan  fraktförare vilka utför befordran efter varandra.
Artikel 36
Talan om ansvarighet för förlust, minskning, skada eller  dröjsmål på grund av fraktavtal får, utom när det är fråga om  genkäromål eller kvittningsyrkande i rättegång rörande fordran  grundad på fraktavtalet, föras endast mot den förste eller den  siste fraktföraren eller mot den fraktförare som utförde sådan  del av befordringen under vilken den händelse inträffade som  orsakade förlusten, minskningen, skadan eller dröjsmålet.  Talan får föras mot flera av dessa fraktförare samtidigt.
Artikel 37
Fraktförare, som betalat ersättning enligt bestämmelserna i  denna konvention, kan återkräva ersättningen jämte ränta och  ersättning för kostnader av övriga fraktförare som deltagit i  befordringen, med iakttagande av följande regler:
a) fraktförare, som är ansvarig för skadan, ska slutligt bära  hela ersättningen, vare sig denna betalats av denne själv  eller av annan fraktförare;
b) har skadan orsakats av omständighet som är att hänföra till  två eller flera fraktförare, ska var och en av dem bära så  mycket av ersättningen som motsvarar hans eller hennes ansva-
righet; är det inte möjligt att bestämma fraktförarnas  inbördes ansvarighet, ska varje fraktförare ta del i  ersättningen i förhållande till den andel av frakten som  tillkommer honom eller henne;
c) kan det inte utredas vilken fraktförare som är ansvarig,  fördelas ersättningsskyldigheten mellan samtliga fraktförare  enligt de under b) angivna grunderna.
Artikel 38
Är någon av fraktförarna på obestånd, ska den andel som faller  på denne och som inte betalats av denne delas mellan de övriga  fraktförarna i förhållande till deras andelar av frakten.
Artikel 39
l. Fraktförare, mot vilken krav framställs med stöd av  artikel 37 eller artikel 38, kan inte göra gällande att den  fraktförare som framställer kravet inte har varit skyldig att  betala det belopp som denne utgivit, om detta fastställts av  domstol och den förstnämnde fraktföraren har blivit behörigen  underrättad om rättegången och fått tillfälle att inträda  däri.
2. Vill fraktförare föra talan om regress, ska talan väckas  vid behörig domstol i stat, där någon av de fraktförare mot  vilka talan riktas har sitt hemvist, sitt huvudkontor eller  den filial eller agentur genom vars medverkan fraktavtalet  slutits. Talan får väckas i samma rättegång mot samtliga dessa  fraktförare.
3. Bestämmelserna i artikel 31 tredje och fjärde styckena äger  motsvarande tillämpning på avgöranden i mål angående regress-
anspråk enligt artiklarna 37 och 38.
4. Bestämmelserna i artikel 32 ska äga motsvarande tillämpning  beträffande regressanspråk mellan fraktförare. Preskriptions-
tiden löper dock antingen från den dag då avgörande om den  ersättning som ska utgå enligt bestämmelserna i denna kon-
vention fick laga kraft eller, om sådant avgörande inte före-
ligger, från den dag då betalning skedde.
Artikel 40
Fraktförare äger sinsemellan avtala om avvikelse från be-
stämmelserna i artiklarna 37 och 38.
KAPITEL VII
Ogiltighet av avtalsvillkor som strider mot konventionen
Artikel 41
1. Om annat inte följer av vad som föreskrivs i artikel 40 är  varje avtalsvillkor som direkt eller indirekt avviker från  bestämmelserna i denna konvention ogiltigt. Ogiltigheten av  sådant avtalsvillkor medför inte ogiltighet av avtalet i  övrigt.
2. I synnerhet är sådana villkor ogiltiga som innebär över-
låtelse på fraktföraren av rätten till utfallande försäkrings-
belopp eller som har liknande innebörd eller som innebär  överflyttning av bevisskyldigheten.
Lag (2019:1194)
.
Bilaga 2
Artiklarna 1-6 i det den 20 februari 2008 antagna  tilläggsprotokollet om den elektroniska fraktsedeln till  konventionen den 19 maj 1956 om fraktavtalet vid  internationell godsbefordran på väg (CMR)
Article 1
Definitions
For the purposes of this Protocol,
"Convention" means the Convention on the Contract for the  International Carriage of Goods by Road (CMR);
"Electronic communication" means information generated, sent,  received or stored by electronic, optical, digital or similar  means with the result that the information communicated is  accessible so as to be usable for subsequent reference;
"Electronic consignment note" means a consignment note issued  by electronic communication by the carrier, the sender or any  other party interested in the performance of a contract of  carriage to which the Convention applies, including  particulars logically associated with the electronic com-
munication by attachments or otherwise linked to the  electronic communication contemporaneously with or subsequent  to its issue, so as to become part of the electronic consign-
ment note;
"Electronic signature" means data in electronic form which  are attached to or logically associated with other electronic  data and which serve as a method of authentication.
Article 2
Scope and effect of the electronic consignment note
1. Subject to the provisions of this Protocol, the consignment  note referred to in the Convention, as well as any demand,  declaration, instruction, request, reservation or other  communication relating to the performance of a contract of  carriage to which the Convention applies, may be made out by  electronic communication.
2. An electronic consignment note that complies with the  provisions of this Protocol shall be considered to be  equivalent to the consignment note referred to in the  Convention and shall therefore have the same evidentiary value  and produce the same effects as that consignment note.
Article 3
Authentication of the electronic consignment note
1. The electronic consignment note shall be authenticated by  the parties to the contract of carriage by means of a reliable  electronic signature that ensures its link with the electronic  consignment note. The reliability of an electronic signature  method is presumed, unless otherwise proved, if the electronic  signature:
(a) is uniquely linked to the signatory;
(b) is capable of identifying the signatory;
(c) is created using means that the signatory can maintain  under his sole control; and
(d) is linked to the data to which it relates in such a manner  that any subsequent change of the data is detectable.
2. The electronic consignment note may also be authenticated  by any other electronic authentication method permitted by the  law of the country in which the electronic consignment note  has been made out.
3. The particulars contained in the electronic consignment  note shall be accessible to any party entitled thereto.
Article 4
Conditions for the establishment of the electronic consignment  note
1. The electronic consignment note shall contain the same  particulars as the consignment note referred to in the  Convention.
2. The procedure used to issue the electronic consignment note  shall ensure the integrity of the particulars contained  therein from the time when it was first generated in its final  form. There is integrity when the particulars have remained  complete and unaltered, apart from any addition or change  which arises in the normal course of communication, storage  and display.
3. The particulars contained in the electronic consignment  note may be supplemented or amended in the cases authorized by  the Convention.
The procedure used for supplementing or amending the  electronic consignment note shall make it possible to detect  as such any supplement or amendment to the electronic consign-
ment note and shall preserve the particulars originally  contained therein.
Article 5
Implementation of the electronic consignment note
1. The parties interested in the performance of the contract  of carriage shall agree on the procedures and their  implementation in order to comply with the requirements of  this Protocol and the Convention, in particular as regards:
(a) The method for the issuance and the delivery of the  electronic consignment note to the entitled party;
(b) An assurance that the electronic consignment note retains  its integrity;
(c) The manner in which the party entitled to the rights  arising out of the electronic consignment note is able to  demonstrate that entitlement;
(d) The way in which confirmation is given that delivery to  the consignee has been effected;
(e) The procedures for supplementing or amending the elec-
tronic consignment note; and
(f) The procedures for the possible replacement of the  electronic consignment note by a consignment note issued by  different means.
2. The procedures in paragraph 1 must be referred to in the  electronic consignment note and shall be readily ascertain-
able.
Article 6
Documents supplementing the electronic consignment note
1. The carrier shall hand over to the sender, at the latter's  request, a receipt for the goods and all information necessary  for identifying the shipment and for access to the electronic  consignment note to which this Protocol refers.
2. The documents referred to in Article 6, paragraph 2 (g) and  Article 11 of the Convention may be furnished by the sender to  the carrier in the form of an electronic communication if the  documents exist in this form and if the parties have agreed to  procedures enabling a link to be established between these  documents and the electronic consignment note to which this  Protocol refers in a manner that assures their integrity.
Article premier
Définitions
Aux fins du présent Protocole,
"Convention" signifie la Convention relative au contrat de  transport international de marchandises par route (CMR);
"Communication électronique" signifie l'information enre-
gistrée, envoyée, reçue ou conservée par des moyens électron-
iques, optiques, numériques ou des moyens équivalents faisant  que l'information communiquée soit accessible pour être con-
sultée ultérieurement;
"Lettre de voiture électronique" signifie une lettre de  voiture émise au moyen d'une communication électronique par le  transporteur, l'expéditeur ou toute autre partie intéressée à  l'exécution d'un contrat de transport auquel la Convention  s'applique, y compris les indications logiquement associées à  la communication électronique sous forme de données jointes ou  autrement liées à cette communication électronique au moment  de son établissement ou ultérieurement de manière à en faire  partie intégrante;
"Signature électronique" signifie des données sous forme 
électronique qui sont jointes ou liées logiquement à d'autres  données électroniques et qui servent de méthode  d'authentification.
Article 2
Champ d'application et portée de la lettre de voiture élec-
tronique
1. Sous réserve des dispositions du présent Protocole, la  lettre de voiture visée à la Convention, ainsi que toute  demande, déclaration, instruction, ordre, réserve ou autre  communication concernant l'exécution d'un contrat de transport  auquel la Convention s'applique, peuvent être établies par  communication électronique.
2. Une lettre de voiture conforme au présent Protocole sera  considérée comme équivalente à la lettre de voiture visée à la  Convention et, de ce fait, aura la même force probante et  produira les mêmes effets que cette dernière.
Article 3
Authentification de la lettre de voiture électronique
1. La lettre de voiture électronique est authentifiée par les  parties au contrat de transport moyennant une signature élec-
tronique fiable garantissant son lien avec la lettre de  voiture électronique. La fiabilité du procédé de signature 
électronique est présumée, jusqu'à preuve contraire, lorsque  la signature électronique:
(a) est liée uniquement au signataire;
(b) permet d'identifier le signataire;
(c) a été créée par des moyens que le signataire puisse garder  sous son contrôle exclusif; et
(d) est liée aux données auxquelles elle se rapporte de telle  sorte que toute modification ultérieure des données soit  détectable.
2. La lettre de voiture électronique peut aussi être au-
thentifiée par tout autre procédé d'authentification 
électronique permis par la législation du pays où la lettre de  voiture électronique a été établie.
3. Les indications qui y sont inscrites doivent être acces-
sibles à toute personne habilitée à cet effet.
Article 4
Conditions d'établissement de la lettre de voiture 
électronique
1. La lettre de voiture électronique contient les mêmes  indications que la lettre de voiture visée à la Convention.
2. Le procédé employé pour l'établissement de la lettre de  voiture électronique doit garantir l'intégrité des indications  qu'elle contient à compter du moment où elle a été établie  pour la première fois sous sa forme définitive. Il y a  intégrité des indications lorsque celles-ci sont restées  complètes et n'ont pas été altérées, exception faite de tout  ajout et de toute modification intervenant dans le cours  normal de la communication, de la conservation et de  l'exposition.
3. Les indications contenues dans la lettre de voiture 
électronique peuvent être complétées ou modifiées dans les cas  admis par la Convention.
La procédure employée pour compléter ou modifier la lettre de  voiture électronique doit permettre la détection en tant que  telle de tout complément ou toute modification et assurer la  préservation des indications originales de la lettre de  voiture électronique.
Article 5
Mise en ouvre de la lettre de voiture électronique
1. Les parties intéressées à l'exécution du contrat de  transport conviennent des procédures et de leur mise en ouvre  pour se conformer aux dispositions du présent Protocole et de  la Convention, notamment en ce qui concerne:
(a) La méthode pour établir et remettre la lettre de voiture 
électronique à la partie habilitée;
(b) L'assurance que la lettre de voiture électronique con-
servera son intégrité;
(c) La façon dont le titulaire des droits découlant de la  lettre de voiture électronique peut démontrer qu'il en est le  titulaire;
(d) La façon dont il est donné confirmation que la livraison  au destinataire a eu lieu;
(e) Les procédures permettant de compléter ou de modifier la  lettre de voiture électronique; et
(f) Les procédures de remplacement éventuel de la lettre de  voiture électronique par une lettre de voiture établie par  d'autres moyens.
2. Les procédures énoncées au paragraphe 1 doivent être  mentionnées dans la lettre de voiture électronique et être  aisément vérifiables.
Article 6
Documents complétant la lettre de voiture électronique
1. Le transporteur remet à l'expéditeur, à la demande de ce  dernier, un récépissé des marchandises et toute indication  nécessaire pour l'identification de l'envoi et l'accès à  lettre de voiture électronique visée par le présent Protocole.
2. Les documents visés à l'article 6, paragraphe 2, lettre g,  et à l'article 11 de la Convention peuvent être fournis par  l'expéditeur au transporteur sous forme de communication élec-
tronique si ces documents existent sous cette forme et si les  parties ont convenu des procédures permettant d'établir un  lien entre ces documents et la lettre de voiture électronique  visée par le présent Protocole dans des conditions de nature à  en garantir l'intégrité.
Artikel 1
Definitioner
I detta protokoll betyder
konvention: konventionen om fraktavtalet vid internationell  godsbefordran på väg (CMR),
elektronisk kommunikation: information som framställs, sänds,  mottas eller förvaras genom elektroniska, optiska, digitala  eller liknande medel så att den är tillgänglig för att senare  kunna användas och åberopas,
elektronisk fraktsedel: en fraktsedel utfärdad genom elek-
tronisk kommunikation av fraktföraren, avsändaren eller annan  part som har intresse i fullgörandet av ett fraktavtal som  konventionen är tillämplig på, inbegripet upplysningar som ges  ett naturligt samband med den elektroniska kommunikationen ge-
nom att bifogas eller på annat sätt knytas till denna,  samtidigt med eller efter dess tillkomst, så att de blir en  del av den elektroniska fraktsedeln.
elektronisk signatur: data i elektronisk form som fogas till  eller ges ett naturligt samband med andra elektroniska data  och används som en metod för att bestyrka äkthet.
Artikel 2
Omfattning och verkan av den elektroniska fraktsedeln
1. Med tillämpning av bestämmelserna i detta protokoll, kan en  fraktsedel som avses i konventionen samt varje begäran,  förklaring, instruktion, anmodan, förbehåll eller annat  meddelande avseende uppfyllelsen av ett fraktavtal som kon-
ventionen är tillämplig på utfärdas genom elektronisk kom-
munikation.
2. En elektronisk fraktsedel som har upprättats i enlighet med  bestämmelserna i detta protokoll ska anses likvärdig med en  fraktsedel som avses i konventionen och medföra samma  rättsverkningar som den fraktsedeln.
Artikel 3
Autentisering av den elektroniska fraktsedeln
1. Äktheten av den elektroniska fraktsedeln ska bestyrkas av  parterna i fraktavtalet genom en tillförlitlig elektronisk  signatur som säkerställer sambandet med den elektroniska  fraktsedeln. En metod för elektronisk signatur förutsätts vara  tillförlitlig, såvida inte annat bevisas, om den elektroniska  signaturen
a) är förenad enbart med undertecknaren,
b) kan identifiera undertecknaren,
c) har skapats på ett sätt som undertecknaren kan hålla under  sin uteslutande kontroll, och
d) är knuten till de data som den hänför sig till på sådant  sätt att varje senare förändring av dessa data går att  upptäcka.
2. Äktheten hos den elektroniska fraktsedeln kan också  bestyrkas genom varje annan elektronisk metod för autent-
isering som tillåts enligt lagen i det land där den  elektroniska fraktsedeln upprättats.
3. Uppgifterna i den elektroniska fraktsedeln ska vara till-
gängligt för varje part som är berättigad.
Artikel 4
Förfarandet vid inrättandet av den elektroniska fraktsedeln
1. Den elektroniska fraktsedeln ska innehålla samma uppgifter  som en fraktsedel som avses i konventionen.
2. Det förfarande som används för att utfärda den elektroniska  fraktsedeln ska säkerställa att uppgifterna i den är intakta  från den tidpunkt när fraktsedeln framställdes i sin slut-
giltiga form. Uppgifterna anses intakta när dessa har  förblivit fullständiga och oförändrade, frånsett sådana  tillägg eller förändringar som normalt uppkommer vid kom-
munikation, lagring och visning.
3. Innehållet i den elektroniska fraktsedeln får kompletteras  eller ändras i sådana fall som konventionen tillåter.
Förfarandet som används för att komplettera eller ändra den  elektroniska fraktsedeln ska göra det möjligt att upptäcka  varje komplettering eller ändring i den elektroniska  fraktsedeln och ska bevara dess ursprungliga uppgifter.
Artikel 5
Införande av den elektroniska fraktsedeln
1. De parter som har intresse i fraktavtalets fullgörande ska  komma överens om förfarandet och dess genomförande så att det  uppfyller kraven i detta protokoll och konventionen, särskilt  beträffande
a) metoden för utfärdande och överlämnande av den elektroniska  fraktsedeln till den berättigade parten,
b) försäkran om att uppgifterna i den elektroniska fraktsedeln  förblir intakta,
c) sättet på vilket den part som är berättigad enligt den  elektroniska fraktsedeln ska kunna visa sin rätt,
d) sättet på vilket avlämnande till mottagaren ska bekräftas,
e) förfarandet vid komplettering eller ändring av den  elektroniska fraktsedeln, och
f) förfarandet ifall den elektroniska fraktsedeln ska ersättas  med en fraktsedel som utfärdas på annat sätt.
2. Förfarandet enligt första stycket ska anges i den elek-
troniska fraktsedeln och vara möjlig att ta del av.
Artikel 6
Handlingar som kompletterar den elektroniska fraktsedeln
1. Fraktföraren ska på avsändarens begäran överlämna ett  kvitto på godset till denne och ge all information som är  nödvändig för att identifiera transporten och få tillgång till  den elektroniska fraktsedel som avses i detta protokoll.
2. De handlingar som avses i artikel 6 andra stycket g och  artikel 11 i konventionen får avsändaren lämna till fraktför-
aren genom elektronisk kommunikation, om de föreligger i denna  form och parterna har kommit överens om förfaranden som knyter  dessa handlingar till den elektroniska fraktsedel som avses i  detta protokoll på ett sätt som säkerställer att handlingarna  hålls intakta.
Lag (2019:1194)
.
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.