Title: Lag (2009:1117) om avtal mellan Sverige och Bermuda om utbyte av upplysningar avseende skatter
SFS Number: Svensk författningssamling 2009:1117
URL: https://www.riksdagen.se/sv/dokument-och-lagar/dokument/svensk-forfattningssamling/lag-20091117-om-avtal-mellan-sverige-och_sfs-2009-1117/
Source Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfst?bet=2009:1117
Amendment Register Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfsr?bet=2009:1117
Ministry/Authority: Finansdepartementet S3
Issued: 2009-11-19
Metadata: {"Utfärdad": "2009-11-19", "Ändrad": "t.o.m. SFS 2009:1136"}

==================================================

Lag (2009:1117) om avtal mellan Sverige och Bermuda om utbyte av upplysningar avseende skatter
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.
SFS nr
:     
2009:1117
Departement/myndighet
:   
Finansdepartementet S3
Utfärdad
:   
2009-11-19
Ändrad
:   
t.o.m. SFS 2009:1136
Ändringsregister
:
SFSR (Regeringskansliet)
Källa
:
Fulltext (Regeringskansliet)
Innehåll:
Övergångsbestämmelser
Det avtal om utbyte av upplysningar avseende skatter som Konungariket Sverige och Bermuda undertecknade den 16 april 2009 ska, tillsammans med det protokoll som är fogat till avtalet och som utgör en del av detta, gälla som lag här i landet. Avtalet är avfattat på engelska och framgår av bilaga till denna lag.
Övergångsbestämmelser
2009:1117
1. Denna lag träder i kraft den dag regeringen bestämmer.
2. Denna lag ska tillämpas för beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari året efter det år då lagen träder i kraft eller senare eller, om beskattningsår saknas, på skatt som tas ut den 1 januari året efter det år då lagen träder i kraft eller senare. I ärenden som utgör skattebrottsärenden enligt avtalet ska lagen emellertid tillämpas från och med ikraftträdandet, dock tidigast från och med den 1 januari 2010.
Bilaga
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN AND BERMUDA (AS  AUTHORISED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT  BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND) ON THE EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION  WITH RESPECT TO TAXES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
The Government of Sweden and the Government of Bermuda,  desiring to facilitate the exchange of information with  respect to taxes,
have agreed as follows:
Article 1
Object and scope of the Agreement
1. The competent authorities of the Parties shall provide  assistance through exchange of information that is relevant  to the administration or enforcement of the domestic laws of  the Parties concerning taxes covered by this Agreement.  Such information shall include information that is relevant  to the determination, assessment and collection of such  taxes, the recovery and enforcement of tax claims, or the  investigation or prosecution of tax matters. Information  shall be exchanged in accordance with the provisions of this  Agreement and shall be treated as confidential in the manner  provided in Article 8.
2. This Agreement shall not affect the application in the  Parties of the rules on mutual assistance in criminal  matters.
Article 2
Jurisdiction
A requested Party is not obligated to provide information  which is neither held by its authorities nor in the  possession of or obtainable by persons who are  within its territorial jurisdiction.
Article 3
Taxes covered
1. The existing taxes which are the subject of this Agreement  are direct taxes of every kind and description imposed in the  Parties.
2. This Agreement shall also apply to any identical or  substantially similar taxes imposed after the date of  signature of this Agreement in addition to, or in place of,  the existing taxes. The competent authorities of the Parties  shall notify each other of any substantial changes to the  taxation and related information gathering measures covered  by this Agreement.
Article 4
Definitions
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, unless otherwise  defined:
(a) "Sweden" means the Kingdom of Sweden and, when used in a  geographical sense, includes the national territory, the  territorial sea of Sweden as well as other maritime areas  over which Sweden in accordance with international law  exercises sovereign rights or jurisdiction;
(b) "Bermuda" means the Islands of Bermuda;
(c) "applicant Party" means the Party requesting for or  having received information from the requested Party;
(d) "collective investment fund or scheme" means any pooled  investment vehicle, irrespective of legal form. The term 
"public collective investment fund or scheme" means any  collective investment fund or scheme provided the units,  shares or other interests in the fund or scheme can be  readily purchased, sold or redeemed by the public. Units,  shares or other interests in the fund or scheme can be  readily purchased, sold or redeemed "by the public" if the  purchase, sale or redemption is not implicitly or explicitly  restricted to a limited group of investors;
(e) "company" means any body corporate or any entity that is  treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;
(f) "competent authority" means, in the case of Sweden, the  Minister of Finance, his authorised representative or the  authority which is designated as a competent authority for  the purposes of this Agreement and, in the case of Bermuda,  the Minister of Finance or an authorised representative of  the Minister;
(g) "Party" means Sweden or Bermuda as the context requires;
(h) "information" means any fact, statement or record in any  form whatever;
(i) "information gathering measures" means laws and  administrative or judicial procedures that enable a Party to  obtain and provide the requested information;
(j) "national" means:
(i) any individual possessing the nationality of a Party, or
	
 (ii) any legal person or association constituted in  accordance with the laws in force in a Party;
(k) "person" includes an individual, a company and any other  body of persons;
(l) "principal class of shares" means the class or classes of  shares representing a majority of the voting power and value  of the company;
(m) "publicly traded company" means any company whose  principal class of shares is listed on a recognised stock  exchange provided its listed shares can be readily purchased  or sold by the public. Shares can be purchased or sold "by  the public" if the purchase or sale of shares is not  implicitly or explicitly restricted to a limited group of  investors;
(n) "recognised stock exchange" means any stock exchange  agreed upon by the  competent authorities of the Parties;
(o) "requested Party" means the Party requested to provide  information;
(p) "resident" means:
(i) in the case of Sweden, any person who, under the laws of  Sweden, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile,  residence, place of management or any other criterion of a  similar nature, and also includes the state of Sweden, any  governmental body or agency, political subdivision or local  authority thereof; the term "resident" does not include any  person who is liable to tax in Sweden in respect only of  income from sources in Sweden; and
(ii) in the case of Bermuda, an individual who is ordinarily  resident of Bermuda; and a company, partnership, trust or  association created under the laws of Bermuda;
(q) "serious tax evasion" means wilfully, with dishonest  intent to defraud the public revenue, evading or attempting  to evade any tax liability where an affirmative act or  omission constituting an evasion or attempted evasion has  occurred. The tax liability must be of a significant or  substantial amount, either as an absolute amount or in  relation to an annual tax liability, and the conduct involved  must either constitute a systematic effort or pattern of  activity designed or tending to conceal pertinent facts from  or provide inaccurate facts to the tax authorities of either  Party, or constitute falsifying or concealing identity. The  competent authorities shall agree on the scope and extent of
matters falling within this definition; and
(r) "tax" means any tax to which this Agreement applies.
2. The term "relevant" wherever used in the Agreement with  respect to information, shall be interpreted in a manner that  ensures that information will be considered relevant  notwithstanding that a definite assessment of the pertinence  of the information to an ongoing investigation could only be  made following the receipt of the information.
3. As regards the application of this Agreement at any time  by a Party, any term not defined herein shall, unless the  context otherwise requires, have the meaning that it has at  that time under the law of that Party, any meaning under  the applicable tax laws of that Party prevailing over a  meaning given to the term under other laws of that Party.
	
Article 5
Exchange of information upon request
1. The competent authority of the requested Party shall  provide upon request information for the purposes referred to  in Article 1. Such information shall be exchanged without  regard to whether the conduct being investigated would  constitute a crime under the laws of the requested Party if
such conduct occurred in the requested Party.
2. If the information in the possession of the competent  authority of the requested Party is not sufficient to enable  it to comply with the request for information, the requested  Party shall use all relevant information gathering measures  to provide the applicant Party with the information  requested, notwithstanding that the requested Party may not  need such information for its own tax purposes.
3. If specifically requested by the competent authority of  the applicant Party, the competent authority of the requested  Party shall provide information under this Article, to the  extent allowable under its domestic laws, in the form of  depositions of witnesses and authenticated copies of original  records.
4. Each Party shall ensure that its competent authority, for  the purposes of this Agreement, has the authority to obtain  and provide upon request:
(a) information held by banks, other financial institutions,  and any person, including nominees and trustees, acting in an  agency or fiduciary capacity;
(b) information regarding the ownership of companies,  partnerships and other persons, including, within the  constraints of Article 2, ownership information  on all such persons in an ownership chain; in the case of  trusts, information on settlors, trustees, beneficiaries and  the position in an ownership chain; and in the case of  foundations, information on founders, members of the  foundation council and beneficiaries and the position in an  ownership chain.
5. This Agreement does not create an obligation on the  Parties to obtain or provide:
(a) ownership information with respect to publicly traded  companies or public collective investment funds or schemes  unless such information can be obtained without giving rise  to disproportionate difficulties;
(b) information relating to a period more than six years  prior to the tax period under consideration;
(c) information unless the applicant Party has pursued all  means available in its own Party to obtain the information,  except those that would give rise to disproportionate  difficulties;
(d) information in the possession of or obtainable by a  person other than the taxpayer that does not directly relate  to the taxpayer.
6. Where the applicant Party requests information with  respect to a matter which does not constitute serious tax  evasion, a senior official of its competent authority shall  certify that the request is relevant to, and necessary for,  the determination of the tax liability of the taxpayer under  the laws of the applicant Party.
7. If information is requested that relates to a person that  is not a resident, nor a national, in one or the other of the  Parties, it also shall be established to the satisfaction of  the competent authority of the requested Party that such  information is necessary for the proper administration and  enforcement of the fiscal laws of the applicant Party.
8. The competent authority of the applicant Party shall  provide the following information to the competent authority  of the requested Party when making a request for information  under this Agreement to demonstrate the relevance of the  information sought to the request:
(a) the identity of the taxpayer under examination or  investigation;
(b) grounds for believing that the information requested is  held in or is in the possession of or obtainable by a person  subject to the jurisdiction of the requested Party;
(c) to the extent known, the name and address of any person  believed to be in possession of or able to obtain the  information requested;
(d) a statement that the request conforms to the law and  administrative practice of the applicant Party and that the  information would be obtainable by the applicant Party under  its laws in similar circumstances, both for its own tax  purposes and in response to a valid request from the  requested Party under this Agreement;
(e) a statement that the applicant Party has pursued all  means available in its own Party to obtain the information,  except those that would give rise to disproportionate  difficulties;
and to the fullest extent possible:
(f) the nature and type of the information requested,  including a description of the specific evidence, information  or other assistance sought and the form, if  practicable, in which the applicant Party prefers to receive  the information;
(g) the tax purposes for which the information is sought and  why it is relevant to the determination of the tax liability  of a taxpayer under the laws of the applicant Party;
(h) information that such taxpayer is a resident in, or  national of one of the Parties, or that it is necessary for  the determination of the tax liability of a taxpayer under  the laws of the applicant Party;
(i) the period of time with respect to which the information  is required for the tax purposes.
9. The competent authority of the requested Party shall  forward the requested information as promptly as possible to  the applicant Party. To ensure a prompt response, the  competent authority of the requested Party shall:
(a) confirm receipt of a request in writing to the competent  authority of the applicant Party and shall notify the  competent authority of the applicant Party of deficiencies in  the request, if any, within 60 days of the receipt of the  request; and
(b) if the competent authority of the requested Party has  been unable to obtain and provide the information within 90  days of receipt of the request, including if it encounters  obstacles in furnishing the information or it refuses to  furnish the information, it shall immediately inform the  applicant Party, explaining the reason for its inability, the  nature of the obstacles or the reasons for its refusal.
Article 6
Tax examinations abroad
1. The requested Party may allow, to the extent permitted  under its domestic law, representatives of the competent  authority of the applicant Party to enter  the territory of the requested Party to interview individuals  and examine records with the written consent of the persons  concerned. The competent authority of the applicant Party  shall notify the competent authority of the requested Party  of the time and place of the meeting with the individuals  concerned.
2. At the request of the competent authority of the applicant  Party, the competent authority of the requested Party may  allow representatives of the competent authority of the  applicant Party to be present at the appropriate part  of a tax examination in the requested Party.
3. If the request referred to in paragraph 2 is acceded to,  the competent authority of the requested Party conducting the  examination shall, as soon as possible, notify the competent  authority of the applicant Party about the time and place of  the examination, the authority or official designated to  carry out the examination and the procedures and conditions  required by the requested Party for the conduct of the  examination. All decisions with respect to the conduct of the  tax examination shall be made by the requested Party  conducting the examination.
Article 7
Possibility of declining a request
1. The competent authority of the requested Party may decline  to assist where:
(a) the request is not made in conformity with this  Agreement;
(b) the disclosure of the information requested would be  contrary to public policy;
(c) the applicant Party would not be able to obtain the  information
(i) under its own laws for purposes of administration or  enforcement of its own tax laws or
(ii) in response to a valid request from the requested Party  under this Agreement.
2. The provisions of this Agreement shall not impose on a  Party the obligation to supply information which would  disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or  professional secret or trade process. Notwithstanding the  foregoing, information of the type referred to in paragraph 4  of Article 5 shall not be treated as such a secret or trade  process merely because it meets the criteria in that  paragraph.
3. The provisions of this Agreement shall not impose on a  Party the obligation to obtain or provide information which  would reveal confidential communications between a client and  an attorney, solicitor or other admitted legal representative  where such communications:
(a) are communications between a professional legal adviser  and a client made in connection with the giving of legal  advice to the client;
(b) are communications between a professional legal adviser  and a client, professional legal adviser acting for the  client and another person, or the client and another person  made in connection with or in contemplation of legal
proceedings and for the purposes of such proceedings; and
(c) include items enclosed with or referred to in such  communications and made:
(i) in connection with the giving of legal advice; or
(ii) in connection with or in contemplation of legal  proceedings and for the purposes of such proceedings, when  the items are in the possession of a person who is entitled  to possession of them.
4. A request for information shall not be refused on the  ground that the tax claim giving rise to the request is  disputed.
5. The requested Party may decline a request for information  if the information is requested by the applicant Party to  administer or enforce a provision of the tax law of the  applicant Party, or any requirement connected therewith,  which discriminates against a national of the requested Party  as compared with a national of the applicant Party in the  same circumstances.
Article 8
Confidentiality
Any information received by a Party under this Agreement  shall be treated as confidential and may be disclosed only to  persons or authorities (including courts and administrative  bodies) in the jurisdiction of the Party concerned with the  assessment or collection of, the enforcement or prosecution  in respect of, or the determination of appeals in relation  to, the taxes covered by this Agreement, and to persons  concerned with the regulation of disclosure and use of  information. Such persons or authorities shall use such  information only for such purposes. They may disclose the  information in public court proceedings or in judicial  decisions. The information may not be disclosed to any other  person or entity or authority or any other jurisdiction  without the express written consent of the competent  authority of the requested Party.
Article 9
Safeguards
The rights and safeguards secured to persons by the laws or  administrative
practices of the requested Party remain applicable. The  rights and safeguards may not be applied by the requested  Party in a manner that unduly prevents or delays effective  exchange of information.
Article 10
Costs
Incidence of costs incurred in providing assistance 
(including reasonable costs of third parties and external  advisors in connection with litigation or otherwise) shall be  agreed by the competent authorities of the Parties.
Article 11
No prejudicial or restrictive measures
1. In the event that a Party has reason to believe that the  other Party has introduced prejudicial or restrictive  measures based on harmful tax practices to residents or  nationals of the other Party, both Parties shall immediately  initiate competent authority proceedings to resolve the  matter.
2. A prejudicial or restrictive measure based on harmful tax  practices means a measure applied by one Party to residents  or nationals of either Party on the basis that the other  Party does not engage in effective exchange of information or  because it lacks transparency in the operation of its laws,  regulations or administrative practices, or on the basis of  no or nominal taxes and one of the preceding criteria.
3. Without limiting the generality of the term "prejudicial  or restrictive measures" it includes the denial of a  deduction, credit or exemption, the imposition of a tax,  charge or levy, or special reporting requirements. Such  measures include any measure which relate, directly or  indirectly, to taxation matters. However, they do not include  any generally applicable measure, applied by either Party  against, amongst others, members of the OECD generally.
	
Article 12
Mutual agreement procedure
1. The competent authorities of the Parties shall jointly  endeavour to resolve any difficulties or doubts arising as to  the interpretation or application of this Agreement.
2. In addition to the endeavours referred to in paragraph 1,  the competent authorities of the Parties may mutually  determine the procedures to be used under Articles 5 and 6.
	
3. The competent authorities of the Parties may communicate  with each other directly for the purposes of this Article.
	
Article 13
Entry into force
1. Each of the Parties shall notify the other in writing of  the completion of the procedures required by its law for the  entry into force of this Agreement.
2. The Agreement shall enter into force on the thirtieth day  after the receipt of the later of these notifications and  shall thereupon have effect
(a) for criminal tax matters, from the date of entry into  force; however, no earlier than January 1st, 2010;
(b) for all other matters covered in Article 1, on taxable  periods beginning on or after the first day of January of the  year next following the date on which the Agreement enters  into force, or where there is no taxable period, for all  charges to tax arising on or after the first day of January  of the year next following the date on which the Agreement  enters into force, however, no earlier than January 1st, 
2010.
Article 14
Termination
1. This Agreement shall remain in force until terminated by a  Party. Either Party may terminate the Agreement, through  diplomatic channels, by giving written notice of termination  to the other Party. In such case, the Agreement  shall cease to have effect on the first day of the month  following the end of the period of six months after the date  of receipt of notice of termination by the other Party.
	
2. In the event of termination, both Parties shall remain  bound by the provisions of Article 8 with respect to any  information obtained under the Agreement. In witness whereof  the undersigned being duly authorised thereto have signed the  Agreement.
Done at Washington this 16th day of April 2009, in duplicate  in the English language.
For the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden
Jonas Hafström
For the Government of Bermuda
Paula Ann Cox
Protocol
PROTOCOL TO THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN AND  BERMUDA (AS AUTHORISED BY THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN  AND NORTHERN IRELAND) ON THE EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION WITH  RESPECT TO TAXES
At the moment of signing the Agreement on the exchange of  information with respect to taxes between the Kingdom of  Sweden and Bermuda, the Parties have agreed that the  following provisions shall form an integral part of the  Agreement:
I. General provision
The Government of Bermuda will take the measures necessary to  repeal any provision of its domestic legislation that  requires that information is physically present for the  purposes of fulfilling the Agreement. The Government  of Sweden in turn will pursue all means available in its own  territory to obtain the information, except those that would  give rise to disproportionate difficulties.
II. Ad Article 5
In respect of paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 (h) of Article 5, the  term "necessary" shall not be interpreted to restrict the  general objectives as set out in Article 1. Certification by  a senior official shall be sufficient to meet the equirements  of those provisions.
In witness whereof the undersigned being duly authorised  thereto have signed this Protocol.
Done at Washington this 16th day of April 2009, in duplicate  in the English language.
	
For the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden
Jonas Hafström
For the Government of Bermuda
Paula Ann Cox
(Översättning)
AVTAL MELLAN KONUNGARIKET SVERIGE OCH BERMUDA (ENLIGT  BEMYNDIGANDE FRÅN DET FÖRENADE KONUNGARIKET STORBRITANNIEN  OCH NORDIRLANDS REGERING) OM UTBYTE AV UPPLYSNINGAR AVSEENDE  SKATTER
Sveriges regering och Bermudas regering, som önskar  underlätta utbytet av upplysningar avseende skatter, har kommit överens om följande:
Artikel 1
Avtalets syfte och tillämpningsområde
1. Parternas behöriga myndigheter ska biträda varandra med  handräckning genom utbyte av upplysningar som är relevanta  vid tillämpningen eller verkställigheten av parternas interna  lagstiftning avseende skatter som omfattas av detta avtal.  Sådana upplysningar ska inbegripa uppgifter som är relevanta  för fastställande, taxering och uppbörd av sådana skatter,  för indrivning och andra exekutiva åtgärder beträffande  skattefordringar eller för utredning eller åtal i  skatteärenden. Upplysningar ska utbytas i enlighet med  bestämmelserna i detta avtal och ska hållas hemliga på sätt  som anges i artikel 8.
2. Detta avtal ska inte påverka tillämpligheten i parterna av  bestämmelserna om ömsesidig rättslig hjälp i brottmål.
Artikel 2
Jurisdiktion
En anmodad part är inte skyldig att lämna upplysningar som  varken innehas av dess myndigheter eller innehas eller kan  inhämtas av personer inom dess jurisdiktion.
Artikel 3
Skatter som omfattas av avtalet
1. De för närvarande utgående skatterna som omfattas av detta  avtal är direkta skatter av varje slag och beskaffenhet som  tas ut i parterna.
2. Detta avtal tillämpas även på skatter av samma eller i  huvudsak likartat slag som efter undertecknandet av avtalet  tas ut vid sidan av eller i stället för de för närvarande  utgående skatterna. Parternas behöriga myndigheter ska  meddela varandra de väsentliga ändringar som gjorts rörande  skattelagstiftningen och åtgärder för att inhämta  upplysningar som omfattas av detta avtal.
Artikel 4
Definitioner
1. Om inte annat anges har vid tillämpningen av detta avtal  följande uttryck nedan angiven betydelse:
a) "Sverige" avser Konungariket Sverige och inbegriper, när  uttrycket används i geografisk betydelse, Sveriges  territorium, Sveriges territorialvatten och andra havsområden  över vilka Sverige, i överensstämmelse med folkrättens  regler, utövar suveräna rättigheter eller jurisdiktion,
b) "Bermuda" avser Bermudaöarna,
c) "anmodande part" avser den part som begär eller har tagit  emot upplysningar från den anmodade parten,
d) "kollektiv investeringsfond eller kollektivt  investeringssystem" avser varje åtagande för kollektiva  investeringar oavsett juridisk form. Uttrycket "publik  kollektiv investeringsfond eller publikt kollektivt  investeringssystem" avser varje kollektiv investeringsfond  eller kollektivt investeringssystem vars andelar, aktier  eller andra rättigheter fritt kan köpas, säljas eller lösas  in av allmänheten. Andelar, aktier eller andra rättigheter i  fonden eller systemet kan fritt köpas, säljas eller lösas in 
"av allmänheten" om köp, försäljning eller inlösen inte  underförstått eller uttryckligen begränsats till en avgränsad  krets av investerare,
e) "bolag" avser juridisk person eller annan  som vid beskattningen behandlas såsom juridisk person,
f) "behörig myndighet" avser i fråga om Sverige,  finansministern, dennes befullmäktigade ombud eller den  myndighet åt vilken uppdras att vara behörig myndighet vid  tillämpningen av detta avtal och, i fråga om Bermuda,  finansministern eller dennes befullmäktigade ombud,
g) "part" avser Sverige eller Bermuda beroende på  sammanhanget,
h) "upplysningar" avser varje omständighet, meddelande eller  protokoll oavsett form,
i) "åtgärder för att inhämta upplysningar" avser lagstiftning  och administrativa åtgärder eller domstolsåtgärder vilka  möjliggör för en part att inhämta och lämna begärda  upplysningar,
j) "medborgare" avser:
1) fysisk person som innehar medborgarskap i en part, eller
2) juridisk person eller association som är bildad enligt  gällande lagstiftning i en part,
k) "person" inbegriper fysisk person, bolag eller annan  personsammanslutning,
l) "viktigaste aktieslag" avser det eller de aktieslag som  representerar majoriteten av rösterna i och värdet av  bolaget,
m) "bolag vars aktier är föremål för allmän omsättning" avser  ett bolag vars viktigaste aktieslag är noterat på en erkänd  aktiebörs under förutsättning att dess noterade aktier  fritt kan köpas eller säljas av allmänheten. Aktier kan köpas  eller säljas "av allmänheten" om köp eller försäljning av  aktier inte underförstått eller uttryckligen begränsats till  en avgränsad krets av investerare,
n) "erkänd aktiebörs" avser sådan börs som parternas behöriga  myndigheter kommit överens om,
o) "anmodad part" avser den part som anmodats att lämna  upplysningar,
p) "person med hemvist" avser:
1) i fråga om Sverige, person som enligt lagstiftningen i  Sverige är skattskyldig där på grund av domicil, bosättning,  plats för företagsledning eller annan liknande omständighet,  även inbegripet svenska staten, dess offentligrättsliga organ  eller institutioner, politiska underavdelningar eller lokala  myndigheter; uttrycket "person med hemvist" omfattar inte  person som är skattskyldig i Sverige endast för inkomst som  har källa i Sverige, och
2) i fråga om Bermuda, fysisk person som är stadigvarande  bosatt ("ordinarily resident") i Bermuda, samt bolag,  handelsbolag, trust eller association som bildats enligt  lagstiftningen i Bermuda,
q) "allvarligt skatteundandragande" avser att med oärligt  uppsåt bedra det allmänna, undandra sig eller försöka  undandra sig en skattskyldighet i fall då en aktiv handling  eller underlåtenhet utgjort ett sådant undandragande eller  försök till undandragande. Skattskyldigheten måste avse ett  betydande belopp, antingen i absoluta tal eller i förhållande  till den sammanlagda skattskyldigheten under ett år.  Förfarandet måste antingen innebära att systematiskt försöka  vidtaga eller faktiskt vidtaga åtgärder som syftar till eller  tenderar att dölja väsentliga fakta för skattemyndigheten i  endera parten eller att förse denna med felaktiga uppgifter  eller förfalskningar eller att försöka dölja någons  identitet. De behöriga myndigheterna ska komma överens om  tilllämpningsområdet för vad som ska omfattas av denna  definition,
r) "skatt" avser varje skatt som omfattas av detta avtal.
2. Termen "relevant" ska, när den används i avtalet  beträffande upplysningar, förstås på ett sätt som  säkerställer att upplysningarna ska anses vara relevanta  trots att något slutligt ställningstagande för  upplysningarnas betydelse för en pågående utredning kan  göras först sedan upplysningarna tagits emot.
3. Då en part tillämpar detta avtal vid någon tidpunkt anses,  såvida inte sammanhanget föranleder annat, varje uttryck som  inte definierats i avtalet ha den betydelse som uttrycket har  vid denna tidpunkt enligt den partens lagstiftning och den  betydelse som uttrycket har enligt tillämplig  skattelagstiftning i denna part äger företräde framför  den betydelse som uttrycket har enligt annan lagstiftning i  denna part.
Artikel 5
Utbyte av upplysningar på begäran
1. Den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten ska på  begäran lämna upplysningar för de ändamål som anges i artikel 
1. Sådana upplysningar ska utbytas utan avseende på om det  handlande som är föremål för utredning skulle ha utgjort ett  brott enligt den anmodade partens lagstiftning om ett sådant  handlande utförts i den anmodade parten.
2. Om de upplysningar som är tillgängliga för den behöriga  myndigheten i den anmodade parten inte räcker till för att  tillmötesgå en begäran om upplysningar, ska den anmodade  parten - utan hinder av att den anmodade parten kanske inte  har behov av upplysningarna för sina egna beskattningsändamål 
- utnyttja alla relevanta åtgärder för att inhämta  upplysningarna till den anmodande parten.
3. Om den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten  särskilt begär det, ska den behöriga myndigheten i den  anmodade parten - i den utsträckning som detta är  tillåtet enligt dess interna lagstiftning - lämna  upplysningar enligt denna artikel i form av upptagande av  vittnesberättelser och bestyrkta kopior av handlingar.
4. Vardera parten ska säkerställa att dess behöriga  myndighet, för tillämpningen av detta avtal, har befogenhet  att på begäran inhämta och lämna:
a) upplysningar som innehas av banker, andra finansiella  institutioner och annan person, däri inbegripet ombud och  trustförvaltare som agerar i egenskap av representant eller  förvaltare,
b) upplysningar om ägarförhållandena i bolag, handelsbolag  och andra personer, däri inbegripet - med de begränsningar  som följer av artikel 2 - upplysningar om ägarförhållandena  avseende alla sådana personer i en ägarkedja; i fråga om  truster, upplysningar om stiftare, förvaltare och  förmånstagare samt trustens placering i en ägarkedja; i fråga  om stiftelser, upplysningar om stiftare, medlemmar i  styrelsen och destinatärer samt stiftelsens placering i en  ägarkedja.
5. Detta avtal medför inte en skyldighet för parterna att  inhämta eller lämna:
a) upplysningar om ägarförhållandena i bolag vars aktier är  föremål för allmän omsättning eller i publika kollektiva  investeringsfonder eller i publika kollektiva  investeringssystem, såvida inte sådana upplysningar kan  inhämtas utan att det medför oproportionerligt stora  svårigheter,
b) upplysningar som avser tid mer än sex år före det  beskattningsår som är föremål för utredning,
c) upplysningar i fall där den anmodande parten inom sitt  eget territorium inte har vidtagit alla de åtgärder som står  till dess förfogande för att inhämta upplysningarna, såvida  inte vidtagandet av sådana åtgärder skulle medföra  oproportionerligt stora svårigheter,
d) upplysningar som annan person än den skattskyldige innehar  eller kan inhämta och som inte direkt avser den  skattskyldige.
6. När den anmodande parten begär upplysningar rörande  frågor som inte avser ett allvarligt skatteundandragande, ska  en tjänsteman vid dess behöriga myndighet intyga att begäran  är relevant och nödvändig för fastställandet av den  skattskyldiges skattskyldighet enligt lagstiftningen i den  anmodande parten.
7. Om upplysningar begärs som avser en person som varken har  hemvist eller är medborgare i någon av parterna, ska det för  den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten på ett  tillfredsställande sätt styrkas att sådana upplysningar är  nödvändiga för en korrekt tillämpning och verkställighet av  skattelagstiftningen i den anmodande parten.
8. Vid begäran om upplysningar enligt detta avtal ska den  behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten till den  behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten lämna följande  upplysningar, för att visa att de efterfrågade upplysningarna  är relevanta:
a) identiteten på den skattskyldige som är föremål för  utredning eller undersökning,
b) skälen för att anta att de begärda upplysningarna  innehas eller kan inhämtas av person inom den anmodade  partens jurisdiktion,
c) såvitt det är känt, namn och adress på person som kan  antas inneha eller kunna inhämta de begärda upplysningarna,
d) uppgift om att ansökan är i överensstämmelse med  lagstiftning och administrativ praxis i den anmodande parten  och att upplysningarna skulle kunna inhämtas av den anmodande  parten enligt sin lagstiftning under liknande omständigheter,  både inom ramen för att bestämma sitt eget skatteanspråk och  för att tillmötesgå en giltig begäran från den anmodade  parten enligt detta avtal,
e) uppgift om att den anmodande parten inom sitt eget  territorium har vidtagit alla åtgärder som står till dess  förfogande för att inhämta upplysningarna, utom sådana  åtgärder som skulle medföra oproportionerligt stora  svårigheter, samt, så  långt som detta är möjligt:
f) de begärda upplysningarnas närmare beskaffenhet, däri  inbegripet en beskrivning av vilka bevis, informationer eller  annat bistånd som efterfrågas och, om det är möjligt, i  vilken form som den anmodande parten föredrar att få  upplysningarna,
g) de beskattningsändamål för vilka de begärda  upplysningarna efterfrågas och varför de är relevanta för att  avgöra en skattskyldigs skattskyldighet enligt lagstiftningen  i den anmodande parten,
h) uppgift om att den skattskyldige har hemvist eller är  medborgare i någon av parterna eller att det är nödvändigt  för att avgöra en skattskyldigs skattskyldighet enligt  lagstiftningen i den anmodande parten,
i) den tidsperiod för vilken upplysningarna behövs för  beskattningen.
9. Den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten ska snarast  möjligt lämna de begärda upplysningarna till den anmodande  parten. För att tillgodose ett skyndsamt svar ska den  anmodade parten:
a) till den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten  skriftligen bekräfta mottagandet av begäran och inom 60 dagar  efter mottagandet underrätta den behöriga myndigheten i den  anmodande parten om eventuella brister i begäran, och
b) om den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade  parten inte har kunnat inhämta och lämna de begärda  upplysningarna inom 90 dagar från det att begäran togs emot,  däri inbegripet om det föreligger förhinder att  tillhandahålla upplysningarna eller om den vägrar att  tillhandahålla upplysningarna, ska den omedelbart underrätta  den anmodande parten om detta och ange skälen till att den  inte kunnat inhämta och tillhandahålla upplysningarna,  vilka hinder som föreligger eller skälen för dess vägran.
Artikel 6
Utomlands utförda skatteutredningar
1. Den anmodade parten kan - i den utsträckning som detta är  tillåtet enligt dess interna lagstiftning - tillåta  representanter för den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande  parten att närvara i den anmodade parten för att höra fysiska  personer och granska handlingar efter skriftligt medgivande  av de berörda personerna. Den behöriga myndigheten i den  anmodande parten ska underrätta den behöriga myndigheten i  den anmodade parten om tid och plats för mötet med berörda  fysiska personer.
2. På begäran av den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande  parten får den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten  låta representanter för den behöriga myndigheten i den  anmodande parten till den del detta anses lämpligt närvara  vid skatteutredning i den anmodade parten.
3. Bifalls en begäran enligt punkt 2 ska den behöriga  myndigheten i den anmodade parten som utför utredningen  snarast möjligt underrätta den behöriga myndigheten i den  anmodande parten om tid och plats för utredningen, om den  myndighet eller person som bemyndigats att utföra  utredningen samt om de förfaranden och villkor som den  anmodade parten fastställt för utförandet av utredningen.  Alla beslut beträffande utförandet av utredningen ska fattas  av den anmodade parten som utför utredningen.
Artikel 7
Möjlighet att avslå en begäran
1. Den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten får avslå  en begäran när:
a) begäran inte har gjorts i överensstämmelse med detta  avtal,
b) lämnandet av de begärda upplysningarna skulle strida mot  allmänna hänsyn,
c) den anmodande parten inte kan inhämta upplysningarna
1) enligt sin lagstiftning avseende tillämpning eller  verkställighet av sin skattelagstiftning, eller
2) som svar på en giltig begäran enligt detta avtal från den  anmodade parten.
2. Bestämmelserna i detta avtal ska inte  medföra skyldighet för en part att lämna upplysningar som  skulle röja handels-, affärs-, industri- eller yrkeshemlighet  eller kommersiell hemlighet eller i näringsverksamhet nyttjat  förfaringssätt. Utan hinder av detta, ska upplysningar  som avses i artikel 5 punkt 4 inte behandlas som en sådan  hemlighet eller sådant förfaringssätt endast på grund av att  de uppfyller villkoren i nämnda punkt.
3. Bestämmelserna i detta avtal ska inte medföra skyldighet  för en part att inhämta eller lämna upplysningar som  skulle röja hemlig kommunikation mellan en klient och dennes  advokat eller annat juridiskt ombud, när sådan kommunikation:
a) utgör kommunikation mellan en yrkesmässig juridisk  rådgivare och dennes klient i samband med juridisk  rådgivning,
b) utgör kommunikation mellan en yrkesmässig  juridisk rådgivare och dennes klient, mellan en yrkesmässig  juridisk rådgivare som agerar som ombud för en klients  räkning och annan person eller mellan klient och annan person  i samband med ett for the purposes of such proceedings; and  pågående eller förestående rättsligt förfarande och som avser  detta förfarande, samt
c) innehåller upplysningar som bifogats eller hänvisats till  i sådan kommunikation och som sker
1) i samband med juridisk rådgivning, eller
2) i samband med ett pågående eller förestående rättsligt  förfarande och som avser detta förfarande, när dessa  upplysningar innehas av en person som har rätt att inneha  dem.
4. En begäran om upplysningar ska inte avslås på grund av att  den skattefordran som föranleder begäran har bestridits.
5. Den anmodade parten får avslå en begäran om upplysningar  om den anmodande parten har begärt upplysningarna för  tillämpning eller verkställighet av bestämmelse i den  anmodande partens skattelagstiftning, eller därmed  sammanhängande krav, som under samma förhållanden  diskriminerar en medborgare i den anmodade parten i  förhållande till en medborgare i den anmodande parten.
Artikel 8
Sekretess
Upplysningar som tas emot av en part med stöd av detta avtal  ska hållas hemliga och får endast yppas för personer och  myndigheter (däri inbegripet domstolar och förvaltningsorgan)  inom den partens jurisdiktion som fastställer, uppbär eller  driver in de skatter som omfattas av avtalet eller handlägger  åtal eller överklagande i fråga om dessa skatter, samt för  personer som har till uppgift att handha frågor om yppande  och användning av upplysningar. Dessa personer eller  myndigheter får använda sådana upplysningar endast för sådana  syften. De får yppa upplysningarna vid offentlig  domstolsförhandling eller i domstolsavgöranden.  Upplysningarna får inte yppas för annan person, institution  eller myndighet eller för annan jurisdiktion utan uttryckligt  skriftligt medgivande av den behöriga myndigheten i den  anmodade parten.
Artikel 9
Rättigheter
De rättigheter som tillkommer personer enligt den anmodade  partens lagstiftning eller administrativa praxis förblir  tillämpliga. Dessa rättigheter får dock inte tillämpas av den  anmodade parten på ett sätt som otillbörligt hindrar eller  försenar ett effektivt utbyte av upplysningar.
Artikel 10
Kostnader
Fördelningen av uppkomna kostnader för handräckning (däri  inbegripet skäliga kostnader för tredje part och utomstående  rådgivare i samband med rättsprocess eller för annat ändamål)  ska parternas behöriga myndigheter komma överens om.
Artikel 11
Inga riktade motåtgärder
1. Om en part har anledning att anta att den andra parten  infört riktade motåtgärder som avser att motverka skadlig  skattekonkurrens och som riktar sig emot personer med hemvist  eller medborgarskap i den andra parten, ska parterna  omedelbart inleda förhandlingar för att lösa frågan.
2. En riktad motåtgärd som avser att motverka skadlig  skattekonkurrens åsyftar en åtgärd som tillämpas av en part  och som riktar sig mot personer med hemvist eller  medborgarskap i en av parterna och som motiveras med att  den andra parten inte medverkar till ett effektivt utbyte av  information eller att denna part brister i transparens när  det gäller dess lagstiftning, föreskrifter eller administrativa  praxis. Detsamma gäller om denna andra part inte tar ut någon  skatt eller om bara en symbolisk skatt tas ut och detta sker  samtidigt som något av de kriterier som nämns ovan föreligger.
3. Utan att begränsa den generella innebörden av uttrycket 
"riktade motåtgärder" inbegriper uttrycket att vägra avdrag,  avräkning, skattereduktion eller skattebefrielse, att ta ut  skatt, avgift eller annan pålaga eller att ställa särskilda  krav på dokumentationsskyldighet. Sådana åtgärder inbegriper  varje åtgärd som direkt eller indirekt påverkar  beskattningen. De inbegriper emellertid inte allmänna  åtgärder som tillämpas generellt av en part i förhållande  till bland annat medlemsstater i OECD.
Artikel 12
Förfarandet vid ömsesidig överenskommelse
1. Parternas behöriga myndigheter ska gemensamt söka avgöra  sådana svårigheter och tvivelsmål som uppkommer i fråga om  tolkningen och tillämpningen av detta avtal.
2. Utöver vad som framgår av punkt 1, får parternas behöriga  myndigheter ömsesidigt komma överens om förfarandena för  tillämpningen av artiklarna 5 och 6.
3. Vid tillämpningen av denna artikel kan parternas behöriga  myndigheter träda i direkt förbindelse med varandra.
Artikel 13
Ikraftträdande
1. Vardera parten ska skriftligen underrätta den andra parten  när de åtgärder vidtagits enligt respektive parts  lagstiftning som krävs för att detta avtal ska träda i kraft.
2. Avtalet träder i kraft den trettionde dagen efter den dag  då den sista av dessa underrättelser tas emot och tillämpas
a) i skattebrottsärenden, från dagen för ikraftträdandet,  dock inte tidigare än den 1 januari 2010,
b) i alla andra ärenden som omfattas av artikel 1, för  beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari det år som närmast  följer efter dagen för ikraftträdandet av avtalet eller  senare, eller då något beskattningsår inte föreligger, för  skatteanspråk som uppkommer den 1 januari det år som  närmast följer efter dagen för ikraftträdandet av avtalet  eller senare, dock inte tidigare än den 1 januari 2010.
Artikel 14
Upphörande
1. Detta avtal förblir i kraft till dess det sägs upp av en  part. Vardera parten kan säga upp avtalet genom att på  diplomatisk väg lämna skriftlig underrättelse härom till den  andra parten. I händelse av sådan uppsägning upphör avtalet  att gälla den första dagen i den månad som följer närmast  efter utgången av den sexmånadersperiod som följer efter den  dag då underrättelsen om uppsägning togs emot av den andra  parten.
2. I händelse av uppsägning ska båda parterna vara fortsatt  bundna av bestämmelserna i artikel 8 i fråga om upplysningar  som erhållits med stöd av avtalet.
Till bekräftelse härav har undertecknade, därtill  vederbörligen bemyndigade, undertecknat detta avtal.
Som skedde i Washington, den 16 april 2009 i två exemplar på  engelska språket.
För Konungariket Sveriges regering
Jonas Hafström
För Bermudas regering
Paula Ann Cox
Protokoll
PROTOKOLL TILL AVTALET MELLAN KONUNGARIKET SVERIGE OCH  BERMUDA (ENLIGT BEMYNDIGANDE FRÅN DET FÖRENADE  KONUNGARIKET STORBRITANNIEN OCH NORDIRLAND) OM UTBYTE AV  UPPLYSNINGAR AVSEENDE SKATTER
Vid undertecknandet av avtalet om utbyte av upplysningar  avseende skatter mellan Konungariket Sverige och Bermuda, har  parterna kommit överens om att följande bestämmelser ska  utgöra en integrerande del av avtalet:
I. Allmänt
Bermudas regering ska vidta nödvändiga åtgärder för att  upphäva varje bestämmelse i sin inhemska lagstiftning som  kräver att upplysningar måste finnas fysiskt tillgängliga i  syfte att uppfylla avtalet. Sveriges regering ska å sin  sida med alla tillgängliga medel söka inhämta upplysningar  inom sitt eget territorium, förutom sådana som skulle medföra  oproportionerliga svårigheter.
II. Till artikel 5
Beträffande artikel 5 punkterna 6, 7 och 8 h), ska termen 
"nödvändig" inte tolkas så att de övergripande syftena som  anges i artikel 1 begränsas. Bekräftelse av en tjänsteman är  tillräcklig för att villkoren ska anses uppfyllda i nämnda  punkter.
Till bekräftelse härav har undertecknade, därtill  vederbörligen bemyndigade, undertecknat detta protokoll.
Som skedde i Washington den 16 april 2009 i två exemplar på  engelska språket.
För Konungariket Sveriges regering
Jonas Hafström
För Bermudas regering
Paula Ann Cox
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.