Title: Tillkännagivande (1996:36) av lydelsen av York-Antwerpenreglerna 
1994
SFS Number: Svensk författningssamling 1996:36
URL: https://www.riksdagen.se/sv/dokument-och-lagar/dokument/svensk-forfattningssamling/tillkannagivande-199636-av-lydelsen-av_sfs-1996-36/
Source Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfst?bet=1996:36
HTML Document Link: None
Amendment Register Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfsr?bet=1996:36
Ministry/Authority: Justitiedepartementet L3
Issued: 1996-02-01
Metadata: {"Utfärdad": "1996-02-01"}

==================================================

Tillkännagivande (1996:36) av lydelsen av York-Antwerpenreglerna 
1994
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.
SFS nr
: 
1996:36
Departement/myndighet
: 
Justitiedepartementet L3
Utfärdad
: 
1996-02-01
Ändringsregister
:
SFSR (Regeringskansliet)
Källa
:
Fulltext (Regeringskansliet)
Regeringen ger till känna, att York-Antwerpenreglerna 1994 har den lydelse i engelsk text och svensk översättning som framgår av bilagan till detta tillkännagivande. Den engelska texten äger vitsord.
Bilaga
York-Antwerp Rules, 1994
Rule of Interpretation
In the adjustment of general average the following Rules shall apply to the exclusion of any Law and Practice Inconsistent therewith.
Except as provided by the Rule Paramount and the numbered Rules, general average shall be adjusted according to the lettered Rules.
Rule Paramount
In no case shall there be any allowance for sacrifice or expenditure unless reasonably made or incurred.
Rule A
There is a general average act when, and only when, any extraordinary sacrifice or expenditure is intentionally and reasonably made or incurred for the common safety for the purpose of preserving from peril the property involved in a common maritime adventure.
General average sacrifices and expenditures shall be borne by the different contributing interests on the basis hereinafter provided.
Rule B
There is a common maritime adventure when one or more vessels are towing or pushing another vessel or vessels, provided that they are all involved in commercial activities and not in a salvage operation.
When measures are taken to preserve the vessels and their cargoes, if any, from a common peril, these Rules shall apply.
A vessel is not in common peril with another vessel or vessels if by simply disconnecting from the other vessel or vessels she is in safety; but if the disconnection is itself a general average act the common maritime adventure continues.
Rule C
Only such losses, damages or expenses which are the direct consequence of the general average act shall be allowed as general average.
In no case shall there be any allowance in general average for losses, damages or expenses incurred in respect of damage to the environment or in consequence of the escape or release of pollutant substances from the property involved in the common maritime adventure.
Demurrage, loss of market, and any loss or damage sustained or expense incurred by reason of delay, whether on the voyage or subsequently, and any indirect loss whatsoever, shall not be admitted as general average.
Rule D
Rights to contribution in general average shall not be affected, though the event which gave rise to the sacrifice or expenditure may have been due to the fault of one of the parties to the adventure;
but this shall not prejudice any remedies or defences which may be open against or to that party in respect of such fault.
Rule E
The onus of proof is upon the party claiming in general average to show that the loss or expense claimed is properly allowable as general average.
All parties claiming in general average shall give notice in writing to the average adjuster of the loss or expense in respect of which they claim contribution within 12 months of the date of the termination of the common maritime adventure.
Failing such notification, or if within 12 months of a request for the same any of the parties shall fail to supply evidence in support of a notified claim, or particulars of value in respect of a contribury interest, the average adjuster shall be at liberty to estimate the extent of the allowance or the contributory value on the basis of the information available to him, which estimate may be challenged only on the ground that it is manifestly incorrect.
Rule F
Any additional expense incurred in place of another expense which would have been allowable as general average shall be deemed to be general average and so allowed without regard to the saving, if any, to other interests, but only up to the amount of the general average expense avoided.
Rule G
General average shall be adjusted as regards both loss and contribution upon the basis of values at the time and place when and where the adventure ends.
This rule shall not affect the determination of the place at which the average statement is to be made up.
When a ship is at any port or place in circumstances which would give rise to an allowance in general average under the provisions of Rules X and XI, and the cargo or part thereof is forwarded to destination by other means, rights and liabilities in general average shall, subject to cargo interests being notified if practicable, remain as nearly as possible the same as they would have been in the absence of such forwarding, as if the adventure had continued in the original ship for so long as justifiable under the contract of affreightment and the applicable law.
The proportion attaching to cargo of the allowances made in general average by reason of applying the third paragraph of this Rule shall not exceed the cost which would have been borne by the owners of cargo if the cargo had been forwarded at their expense.
Rule I - Jettison of Cargo
No jettison of carago shall be made good as general average, unless such cargo is carried in accordance with the recognised custom of the trade.
Rule II - Loss or Damage by Sacrifices for the Common Safety
Loss of or damage to the property involved in the common maritime adventure by or in consequence of a sacrifice made for the common safety, and by water which goes down a ship's hatches opened or other opening made for the purpose of making a jettison for the common safety, shall be made good as general average.
Rule III - Extinguishing Fire on Shipboard
Damage done to a ship and cargo, or either of them, by water or otherwise, including damage by beaching or scuttling a burning ship, in extinguishing a fire on board the ship, shall be made good as general average;
except that no compensation shall be made for damage by smoke however caused or by heat of the fire.
Rule IV - Cutting away Wreck
Loss or damage sustained by cutting away wreck or parts of the ship which have been previously carried away or are effectively lost by accident shall not be made good as general average.
Rule V - Voluntary Stranding
When a ship is intentionally run on shore for the common safety, whether or not she might have been driven on shore, the consequent loss or damage to the property involved in the common maritime adventure shall be allowed in general average.
Rule VI - Salvage Remuneration
(a) Expenditure incurred by the parties to the adventure in the nature of salvage, whether under contract or otherwise, shall be allowed in general average provided that the salvage operations were carried out for the purpose of preserving from peril the property involved in the common maritime adventure.
Expenditure allowed in general average shall include any salvage remuneration in which the skill and efforts of the salvors in preventing or minimising damage to the environment such as is referred to in Article 13 paragraph
1(b) of the International Convention on Salvage, 1989 have been taken into account.
(b) Special compensation payable to a salvor by the shipowner under Article 14 of the said Convention to the extent specified in paragraph 4 of that Article or under any other provision similar in substance shall not be allowed in general average.
Rule VII - Damage to Machinery and Boilers
Damage caused to any machinery and boilers of a ship which is ashore and in a position of peril, in endeavouring to refloat, shall be allowed in general average when shown to have arisen from an actual intention to float the ship for the common safety at the risk of such damage; but where a ship is afloat no loss or damage caused by working the propelling machinery and boilers shall in any circumstances be made good as general average.
Rule VIII - Expenses Lightening a Ship when Ashore, and Consequent Damage
When a ship is ashore and cargo and ship's fuel and stores or any of them are discharged as a general average act, the extra cost of lightening, lighter hire and reshipping (if incurred), and any loss or damage to the property involved in the common maritime adventure in consequence thereof, shall be admitted as general average.
Rule IX - Cargo, Ship's Materials and Stores used for Fuel
Cargo, ship's materials and stores, or any of them, necessarily used for fuel for the common safety at a time of peril shall be admitted as general average, but when such an allowance is made for the cost of ship's materials and stores the general average shall be credited with the estimated cost of the fuel which would otherwise have been consumed in prosecuting the intended voyage.
Rule X - Expenses at Port of Refuge, etc.
(a) When a ship shall have entered a port or place of refuge or shall have returned to her port or place of loading in consequence of accident, sacrifice or other extraordinary circumstances which render that necessary for the common safety, the expenses of entering such port or place shall be admitted as general average; and when she shall have sailed thence with her original cargo, or a part of it, the corresponding expenses of leaving such port or place consequent upon such entry or return shall likewise be admitted as general average.
When a ship is at any port or place of refuge and is necessarily removed to another port or place because repairs cannot be carried out in the first port or place, the provisions of this Rule shall be applied to the second port or place as if it were a port or place of refuge and the cost of such removal including temporary repairs and towage shall be admitted as general average. The provisions of Rule XI shall be applied to the prolongation of the voyage occasioned by such removal.
(b) The cost of handling on board or discharging cargo, fuel or stores whether at a port or place of loading, call or refuge, shall be admitted as general average, when the handling or discharge was necessary for the common safety or to enable damage to the ship caused by sacrifice or accident to be repaired, if the repairs were necessary for the safe prosecution of the voyage, except in cases where the damage to the ship is discovered at a port or place of loading or call without any accident or other extraordinary circumstances connected with such damage having taken place during the voyage.
The cost of handling on board or discharging cargo, fuel or stores shall not be admissible as general average when incurred solely for the purpose of restowage due to shifting during the voyage, unless such restowage is necessary for the common safety.
(c) Whenever the cost of handling or discharging cargo, fuel or stores is admissible as general average, the costs of storage, including insurance if reasonably incurred, reloading and stowing of such cargo, fuel or stores shall likewise be admitted as general average. The provisions of Rule XI shall be applied to the extra period of detention occasioned by such reloading or restowing.
But when the ship is condemned or does not proceed on her original voyage, storage expenses shall be admitted as general average only up to the date of the ship's condemnation or of the abandonment of the voyage or up to the date of completion of discharge of cargo if the condemnation or abandonment takes place before that date.
Rule XI - Wages and Maintenance of Crew and other expenses bearing up for and in a port of refuge, etc.
(a) Wages and maintenance of master, officers and crew reasonably incurred and fuel and stores consumed during the prolongation of the voyage occasioned by a ship entering a port or place of refuge or returning to her port or place of loading shall be admitted as general average when the expenses of entering such port or place are allowable in general average in accordance with Rule X(a).
(b) When a ship shall have entered or been detained in any port or place in consequence of accident, sacrifice or other extraordinary circumstances which render that necessary for the common safety, or to enable damage to the ship caused by sacrifice or accident to be repaired, if the repairs were necessary for the safe prosecution of the voyage, the wages and maintenance of the master, officers and crew reasonably incurred during the extra period of detention in such port or place until the ship shall or should have been made ready to proceed upon her voyage, shall be admitted in general average.
Fuel and stores consumed during the extra period of detention shall be admitted as eneral average, except such fuel and stores as are consumed in effecting repairs not allowable in general average.
Port charges incurred during the extra period of detention shall likewise be admitted as general average except such charges as are incurred solely by reason of repairs not allowable in general average.
Provided that when damage to the ship is discovered at a port or place of loading or call without any accident or other extraordinary circumstance connected with such damage having taken place during the voyage, then the wages and maintenance of master, officers and crew and fuel and stores consumed and port charges incurred during the extra detention for repairs to damages so discovered shall not be admissible as general average, even if the repairs are necessary for the safe prosecution of the voyage.
When the ship is condemned or does not proceed on her original voyage, the wages and maintenance of the master, officers and crew and fuel and stores consumed and port charges be admitted as general average only up to the date of the ship's condemnation or of the abandonment of the voyage or up to the date of completion of discharge of cargo if the condemnation or abandonment takes place before that date.
(c) For the purpose of this and the other Rules wages shall include all payments made to or for the benefit of the master, officers and crew, whether such payments be imposed by law upon the shipowners or be made under the terms of articles of employment.
(d) The cost of measures undertaken to prevent or minimise damage to the environment shall be allowed in general average when incurred in any or all of the following circumstances:
(i) as part of an operation performed for the common safety which, had it been undertaken by a party outside the common maritime adventure, would have entitled such party to a salvage reward;
(ii) as a condition of entry into or departure from any port or place in the circumstances prescribed in Rule X(a);
(iii) as a condition of remaining at any port or place in the circumstances prescribed in Rule XI(b), provided that when there is an actual escape or release of pollutant substances the cost of any additional measures required on that account to prevent or minimise pollution or environmental damage shall not be allowed as general average;
(iv) necessarily in connection with the discharging, storing or reloading of cargo whenever the cost of those operations is admissible as general average.
Rule XII - Damage to Cargo in Discharging, etc.
Damage to or loss of cargo, fuel or stores sustained in consequence of their handling, discharging, storing, reloading and stowing shall be made good as general average, when and only when the cost of those measures respectively is admitted as general average.
Rule XIII- Deduction from Cost of Repairs
Repairs to be allowed in general average shall not be subject to deductions in respect of "new for old" where old material or parts are replaced by new unless the ship is over fifteen years old in which case there shall be a deduction of one third. The deductions shall be regulated by the age of the ship from the 31st December of the year of completion of construction to the date of the general average act, except for insulation, life and similar boats, communications and navigational apparatus and equipment, machinery and boilers for which the deductions shall be regulated by the age of the particular parts to which they apply.
The deductions shall be made only from the cost of the new material or parts when finished and ready to be installed in the ship.
No deduction shall be made in respect of provisions, stores, anchors and chain cables.
Drydock and slipway dues and costs of shifting the ship shall be allowed in full.
The costs of cleaning, painting or coating of bottom shall not be allowed in general average unless the bottom has been painted or coated within the twelve months preceding the date of the general average act in which case one half of such costs shall be allowed.
Rule XIV Temporary Repairs
Where temporary repairs are effected to a ship at a port of loading, call or refuge, for the common safety, or of damage caused by general average sacrifice, the cost of such repairs shall be admitted as general average.
Where temporary repairs of accidental damage are effected in order to enable the adventure to be completed, the cost of such repairs shall be admitted as general average without regard to the saving, if any, to other interests, but only up to the saving in expense which would have been incurred and allowed in general average if such repairs had not been effected there.
No deductions "new for old" shall be made from the cost of temporary repairs allowable as general average.
Rule XV - Loss of Freight
Loss of freight arising from damage to or loss of cargo shall be made good as general average, either when caused by a general average act, or when the damage to or loss of cargo is so made good.
Deduction shall be made from the amount of gross freight lost, of the charges which the owner thereof would have incurred to earn such freight, but has, in consequence of the sacrifice, not incurred.
Rule XVI - Amount to be made good for Cargo Lost or Damaged by Sacrifice
The amount to be made good as general average for damage to or loss of cargo sacrificed shall be the loss which has been sustained thereby based on the value at the time of discharge, ascertained from the commercial invoice rendered to the receiver or if there is no such invoice from the shipped value. The value at the time of discharge shall include the cost of insurance and freight except insofar as such freight is at the risk of interests other than the cargo.
When cargo so damaged is sold and the amount of the damage has not been otherwise agreed, the loss to be made good in general average shall be the difference between the net proceeds of sale and the net sound value as computed in the first paragraph of this Rule.
Rule XVII - Contributory Values
The contribution to a general average shall be made upon the actual net values of the property at the termination of the adventure except that the value of cargo shall be the value at the time of discharge, ascertained from the commercial invoice rendered to the receiver or if there is no such invoice from the shipped value. The value of the cargo shall include the cost of insurance and freight unless and insofar as such freight is at the risk of interests other than the cargo, deducting therefrom any loss or damage suffered by the cargo prior to or at the time of discharge. The value of the ship shall be assessed without taking into account the beneficial or detrimental effect of any demise or time charterparty to which the ship may be committed.
To these values shall be added the amount made good as general average for property sacrificed, if not already included, deduction being made from the freight and passage money at risk of such charges and crew's wages as would not have been incurred in earning the freight had the ship and cargo been totally lost at the date of the general average act and have not been allowed as general average; deduction being also made from the value of the property of all extra charges incurred in respect thereof subsequently to the general average act, except such charges as are allowed in general average or fall upon the ship by virtue of an award for special compensation under Article14 of the International Convention on Salvage, 1989 or under any other provision similar in substance.
In the circumstances envisaged in the third paragraph of Rule G, the cargo and other property shall contribute on the basis of its value upon devilery at original destination unless sold or otherwise disposed of short of that destination, and the ship shall contribute upon its actual net value at the time of completion of discharge of cargo.
Where cargo is sold short of destination, however, it shall contribute upon the actual net proceeds of sale, with the addition of any amount made good as general average.
Mails, passengers' luggage, personal effects and accompanied private motor vehicles shall not contribute in general average.
Rule XVIII - Damage to Ship
The amount to be allowed as general average for damage or loss to the ship, her machinery and/or gear caused by a general average act shall be as follows:
(a) When repaired or replaced,
The actual reasonable cost of repairing or replacing such damage or loss, subject to deductions in accordance with Rule XIII;
(b) When not repaired or replaced,
The reasonable depreciation arising from such damage or loss, but not exceeding the estimated cost of repairs. But where the ship is an actual total loss or when the cost of repairs of the damage would exceed the value of the ship when repaired, the amount to be allowed as general average shall be the difference between the estimated sound value of the ship after deducting therefrom the estimated cost of repairing damage which is not general average and the value of the ship in her damaged state which may be measured by the net proceeds of sale, if any.
Rule XIX - Undeclared or Wrongfully Declared Cargo
Damage or loss caused to goods loaded without the knowledge of the shipowner or his agent or to goods wilfully misdescribed at time of shipment shall not be allowed as general average, but such goods shall remain liable to contribute, if saved.
Damage or loss caused to goods which have been wrongfully declared on shipment at a value which is lower than their real value shall be contributed for at the declared value, but such goods shall contribute upon their actual value.
Rule XX - Provision of Funds
A commission of 2 per cent on general average disbursements, other than the wages and maintenance of master, officers and crew and fuel and stores not replaced during the voyage, shall be allowed in general average.
The capital loss sustained by the owners of goods sold for the purpose of raising funds to defray general average disbursements shall be allowed in general average.
The cost of insuring general average disbursements shall also be admitted in general average.
Rule XXI- Interest on Losses made good in General Average
Interest shall be allowed on expenditure, sacrifices and allowances in general average at the rate of 7 per cent per annum, until three months after the date of issue of the general average adjustment, due allowance being made for any payment on account by the contributory interests or from the general average deposit fund.
Rule XXII - Treatment of Cash Deposits
Where cash deposits have been collected in respect of cargo's liability for general average, salvage or special charges such deposits shall be paid without any delay into a special account in the joint names of a representative nominated on behalf of the shipowner and a representative nominated on behalf of the depositors in a bank to be approved by both. The sum so deposited, together with accrued interest, if any, shall be held as security for payment to the parties entitled thereto of the general average, salvage or special charges payable by cargo in respect of which the deposits have been collected. Payments on account or refunds of deposits may be made if certified to in writing by the average adjuster. Such deposits and payments or refunds shall be without prejudice to the ultimate liability of the parties.
(Översättning)
York-Antwerpenreglerna 1994
Tolkningsregel
Vid uppgörandet av gemensamt haveri skall följande regler tillämpas med uteslutande av varje med dem oförenlig lag eller praxis
Gemensamt haveri görs upp i enlighet med de regler som betecknas med bokstav, utom i de fall för vilka särskilda bestämmelser finns i den överordnade regeln och i de regler som betecknas med siffra.
Överordnad regel
Uppoffringar och utgifter skall inte gottgöras, om de inte är skäliga.
Regel A
En gemensamt-haveri-akt föreligger då och endast då en extraordinär uppoffring eller utgift avsiktligt och skäligen görs för det helas räddning i syfte att från fara bevara de värden som omfattas av den gemensamma sjöresan.
Uppoffringar och utgifter av gemensamt haveris natur bärs av de olika bidragande intressena efter nedan angivna grunder.
Regel B
En gemensam sjöresa föreligger när ett eller flera fartyg bogserar eller skjuter framför sig ett annat eller andra fartyg, förutsatt att samtliga är engagerade i kommersiell verksamhet och inte i ett bärgningsföretag.
När åtgärder vidtas för att bevara fartygen och deras eventuella last från en gemensam fara, skall dessa regler tillämpas.
Ett fartyg är inte i gemensam fara med ett annat eller andra fartyg, om det kan räddas enbart genom att lossgöra sig från det eller de andra fartygen; men om lossgörandet i sig självt är en gemensamt-haveri-akt, fortsätter den gemensamma sjöresan.
Regel C
Endast sådana förluster, skador eller kostnader, vilka är en direkt följd av gemensamt-haveri-akten, ersätts som gemensamt haveri.
Ingen ersättning skall vid gemensamt haveri utgå för förluster, skador eller utgifter som uppkommit på grund av miljöskada eller till följd av läckage eller utsläpp av miljöförorenande ämnen från den egendom som omfattas av den gemensamma sjöresan.
Som gemensamt haveri ersätts inte överliggetid, förlust av marknad och annan förlust, skada eller utgift som uppkommit genom dröjsmål, vare sig under resan eller därefter, och inte heller någon som helst indirekt förlust.
Regel D
Då den händelse, som gav anledning till uppoffringen eller utgiften, tillkommit genom vållande av någon av haveriintressenterna, föreligger inte desto mindre bidragsskyldighet, men detta skall inte inskränka någondera sidans möjlighet att åberopa sådant vållande.
Regel E
Den som kräver ersättning i gemensamt haveri har att visa att förlusten eller kostnaden är ersättningsgill som gemensamt haveri.
Varje part som kräver ersättning i gemensamt haveri skall inom tolv månader räknat från den gemensamma sjöresans slut skriftligen underrätta dispaschören om den förlust eller utgift, som han kräver ersättning för.
Om part underlåter att lämna en sådan underrättelse eller att, inom tolv månader efter anmodan om detta, komma in med bevis till stöd för ett anmält anspråk eller uppgifter om värde avseende ett bidragande intresse, står det dispaschören fritt att beräkna ersättningens storlek eller bidragsvärde på grundval av tillgängliga uppgifter, varefter beräkningen kan angripas bara på den grunden att den är uppenbart felaktig.
Regel F
Varje ytterligare utgift, som trätt i stället för annan utgift, vilken skulle ha ersatts som gemensamt haveri, skall anses vara gemensamt haveri och ersättas såsom sådant, utan hänsyn till den besparing som kan ha uppstått för andra intressen men endast intill beloppet av den inbesparade gemensamt-haveri-utgiften.
Regel G
Med hänsyn till såväl rätten till ersättning som bidragsskyldigheten skall gemensamt haveri göras upp på grundval av värdena vid den tid och på den ort, där resan slutar.
Genom denna regel avgörs inte var dispaschen angående det gemensamma haveriet skall upprättas.
När ett fartyg befinner sig i en hamn eller på en plats, under omständigheter som skulle föranleda ersättning i gemensamt haveri enligt Reglerna X och XI, samt, efter det att lastintressenterna om möjligt har underrättats om detta, lasten eller en del av den har vidarebefordrats till destinationsorten på något annat sätt, skall rättigheter och skyldigheter så långt som det är möjligt förbli desamma som om en sådan vidarebefordran inte hade ägt rum och resan hade fortsatt med det ursprungliga fartyget, så länge som detta är försvarligt enligt befraktningsavtalet och gällande lag.
Ersättningsandelen för last i gemensamt haveri med åberopande av tredje stycket i denna regel skall inte överstiga den kostnad som skulle ha burits av lastens ägare, om lasten hade vidarebefordrats på deras bekostnad.
Regel I - Kastning av last
Överbordkastning av last ersätts som gemensamt haveri, bara om samma last transporteras i överensstämmelse med erkänd sedvänja inom ifrågavarande slags fraktfart.
Regel II - Förlust eller skada genom uppoffringar för det helas räddning
Som gemensamt haveri ersätts förlust av eller skada på den egendom som omfattas av den gemensamma sjöresan genom eller till följd av en uppoffring för det helas räddning liksom även skador av vatten som tränger ner genom ett fartygs luckor, när dessa öppnats för att verkställa kastning för det helas räddning, eller som tränger ner genom andra öppningar som gjorts i samma avsikt.
Regel III - Släckning av brand ombord
Skada som vid brandsläckning ombord tillfogas fartyg och/eller last genom vatten eller på något annat sätt däri inbegripet skada, som uppkommit genom att ett brinnande fartyg strandsatts eller borrats i sank, skall ersättas som
gemensamt haveri; dock ersätts inte skada av rök hur den än uppkommit eller av värme från branden.
Regel IV - Bortkapning av skadade fartygsdelar
Förlust eller skada uppkommen till följd av bortkapning av spillror eller delar av fartyget, vilka förut slagits loss eller måste anses förlorade till följd av sjöolycka skall inte ersättas som gemensamt haveri.
Regel V - Frivillig strandning
När ett fartyg med avsikt sätts på grund för det helas räddning, vare sig fartyget i annat fall skulle drivit i land eller inte, skall därav uppkommande förlust eller skada på egendom som omfattas av den gemensamma sjöresan ersättas som gemensamt haveri.
Regel VI - Bärgningsersättning
(a) Utgifter som haveriintressent till följd av bärgning fått vidkännas på grund av kontrakt eller på annan grund skall ersättas i gemensamt haveri förutsatt att bärgningsåtgärderna vidtagits för att från fara bevara värden, som omfattas av den gemensamma sjöresan.
Ersättning av utgifter i gemensamt haveri skall omfatta all bärgarlön, där man har tagit hänsyn till bärgarnas skicklighet och ansträngningar för att hindra eller begränsa miljöskada, såsom anges i artikel 13.1(b) i 1989 års
internationella konvention om bärgning.
(b) Särskild ersättning, som fartygsägaren enligt artikel 14 i konventionen skall betala till bärgare i den omfattning som anges i artikel 14.4 eller enligt annan bestämmelse av liknande innebörd, skall inte ersättas i gemensamt haveri.
Regel VII - Skada på maskineri och pannor
Skada som uppkommit på maskineri av något slag och på pannor vid försök att flottaga fartyg, som strandat och befinner sig i farlig belägenhet skall ersättas i gemensamt haveri, när skadan bevisligen härleder sig från åtgärd, som företagits i avsikt att för det helas räddning bringa fartyget flott även med risk att lida dylik skada; men när fartyget är flott ersätts inte under några omständigheter som gemensamt haveri förlust eller skada som uppstått genom att fartygets framdrivningsmaskineri och pannor fått arbeta.
Regel VIII - Utgifter för att lätta strandat fartyg och skada som därav följt
När fartyget strandat och lossning av last, fartygets bränsle och/eller utrustningsartiklar sker såsom en gemensamt-haveri-akt, skall de extra utgifterna för fartygets lättande, för pråmhyror och för återinlastning (om sådan ägt rum)
ävensom all uppkommen förlust av eller skada på den egendom som omfattas av den gemensamma sjöresan, ersättas som gemensamt haveri.
Regel IX - Last, fartygsinventarier och utrustningsartiklar använda som bränsle
Last, fartygsinventarier och/eller utrustningsartiklar, som oundgängligen måst användas till bränsle för det helas räddning i en nödsituation, skall ersättas som gemensamt haveri, men när sådan ersättning utgår för kostnaden för fartygsinventarier och utrustningsartiklar skall den beräknade kostnaden för det bränsle som annars skulle ha förbrukats på den avsedda resan räknas det gemensamma haveriet till godo.
Regel X - Utgifter i nödhamn etc.
(a) När fartyget anlöpt en hamn eller plats som nödhamn eller återvänt till lastningshamn eller lastningsplats till följd av sjöolycka, uppoffring eller andra extraordinära omständigheter, som gjort anlöpandet eller återvändandet nödvändigt för det helas räddning, skall utgifterna för anlöpandet av sådan hamn eller plats ersättas som gemensamt haveri; och när fartyget därifrån åter avgått med sin ursprungliga last eller del därav, skall motsvarande utgifter för utgående från sådan hamn eller plats, till följd av sådant anlöpande eller återvändande likaledes ersättas i gemensamt haveri.
När fartyget befinner sig i hamn eller ort såsom nödhamn och måste förflyttas till annan hamn eller ort emedan reparation inte kan utföras i den första hamnen eller orten, då skall bestämmelserna i denna regel tillämpas beträffande denna andra hamn eller ort som om den var nödhamn, och kostnaderna för sådan förflyttning, inklusive provisoriska reparationer och bogsering, skall ersättas som gemensamt haveri. Bestämmelserna i Regel XI skall tillämpas på den förlängning av resan som föranletts av dylik förflyttning.
(b) Kostnaden för hantering ombord eller lossning av last, bränsle eller utrustningsartiklar, vare sig i lastningshamn, på lastningsplats, i mellanhamn eller i hamn eller på plats som nödhamn, skall ersättas som gemensamt haveri, när hanteringen eller lossningen var nödvändig för det helas räddning eller för att möjliggöra reparation av skada, som fartyget lidit genom uppoffring eller sjöolycka, förutsatt att reparationen var nödvändig för att resan tryggt skulle kunna fullföljas utom i de fall då skadan på fartyget upptäcks i lastningshamn eller på orderplats utan att någon sjöolycka eller annan extraordinär händelse som äger samband med sådan skada inträffat under resan.
Kostnaden för hantering ombord eller lossning av last, bränsle eller utrustningsartiklar skall inte ersättas i gemensamt haveri om den uppkommit endast för omstuvning på grund av förskjutning under resan och sådan omstuvning inte är nödvändig för det helas räddning.
(c) När kostnaden för hantering eller lossning av last, bränsle eller utrustningsartiklar är föremål för ersättning i gemensamt haveri, skall kostnaden för lagring inklusive skälig försäkringskostnad, återinlastning och stuvning av nämnda last, bränsle eller utrustningsartiklar likaledes ersättas som gemensamt haveri. Bestämmelserna i Regel XI skall tillämpas på det förlängda uppehållet till följd av sådan återinlastning eller omstuvning.
Om fartyget kondemneras eller inte fortsätter sin ursprungliga resa, skall lagringskostnader dock ersättas i gemensamt haveri endast fram till den tidpunkt då fartyget kondemneras eller resan avbryts eller fram till den tidpunkt då lossningen av lasten avslutas om kondemnation sker eller beslut om resans avbrytande fattas dessförinnan.
Regel XI - Besättningens hyror och underhåll och andra utgifter under anlöpande av och uppehåll i nödhamn etc.
(a) Skäliga kostnader för hyror och underhåll för befäl och besättning, jämte bränsle och utrustningsartiklar som förbrukats under förlängning av resan till följd av att fartyg anlöper en hamn eller ort såsom nödhamn eller återvänder till sin lastningshamn eller lastningsplats, skall ersättas i gemensamt haveri, om utgifterna för anlöpande av dylik hamn eller plats ersätts i gemensamt haveri enligt Regel X (a).
(b) När fartyget anlöpt eller blivit uppehållet i någon hamn eller på någon plats till följd av sjöolycka, uppoffring eller av annan extraordinär omständighet, som gjort detta nödvändigt för det helas räddning eller för att möjliggöra reparation av skador på fartyget förorsakade av uppoffring eller sjöolycka, då skall, om reparationen var nödvändig för att resan tryggt skulle kunna fullföljas, skäliga kostnader för hyror och underhåll för befäl och besättning under den tid det extra uppehållet i sådan hamn eller ort varar och intill dess fartyget är eller bort vara färdigt att fortsätta resan, ersättas i gemensamt haveri.
Bränsle och utrustningsartiklar som förbrukats under det förlängda uppehållet skall ersättas i gemensamt haveri, dock inte vad som förbrukats medan reparationer, som inte är ersättningsgilla i gemensamt haveri, utförts.
Hamnavgifter för tiden för det förlängda uppehållet skall likaledes ersättas i gemensamt haveri utom sådana avgifter som uteslutande föranletts av reparationer, vilka inte är ersättningsgilla i gemensamt haveri.
Då skada på fartyget upptäcks i lastningshamn, på lastningsplats eller i mellanhamn utan att någon sjöolycka eller annan extraordinär händelse som äger samband med sådan skada inträffat under resan, skall dock ej hyror och underhåll för befäl och besättning eller förbrukat bränsle och utrustningsartiklar och hamnavgifter under det extra uppehållet för reparation av sålunda upptäckta skador ersättas i gemensamt haveri, även om reparationerna är nödvändiga för att resan tryggt skall kunna fullföljas.
När fartyget kondemneras eller inte fortsätter sin ursprungliga resa, skall hyror och underhåll för befäl och besättning samt förbrukat bränsle, förbrukade utrustningsartiklar och hamnavgifter ersättas som gemensamt haveri endast fram till den tidpunkt då fartyget kondemneras eller resan avbryts eller fram till den tidpunkt då lossningen av lasten avslutas om kondemnation sker eller beslut om resans avbrytande fattas dessförinnan.
(c) I denna och övriga regler inbegrips under hyror alla utbetalningar till eller till förmån för befäl och besättning, vare sig dessa betalningar åligger redaren enligt lag eller enligt anställningsavtal.
(d) Kostnader för åtgärder som vidtagits för att hindra eller begränsa miljöskada skall ersättas i gemensamt haveri, då de uppstått under någon eller samtliga av följande omständigheter:
(i) vid åtgärder vidtagna för det helas räddning, vilka, om de hade vidtagits av part som inte omfattas av den gemensamma sjöresan, skulle ha berättigat sådan part till bärgarlön.
(ii) som villkor för anlöpande av eller avgång från hamn eller plats under de omständigheter som beskrivs i Regel X(a).
(iii) som villkor för kvarliggande i hamn eller på plats under sådana omständigheter som anges i Regel XI(b), förutsatt att, när läckage föreligger eller utsläpp gjorts av miljöförstörande ämnen, kostnaden till följd härav för alla nödvändiga ytterligare åtgärder för att hindra eller begränsa förorening eller miljöskada inte skall ersättas som gemensamt haveri.
(iv) i ett nödvändigt samband med lossning, lagring eller återinlastning av last, när kostnaden för dessa åtgärder är föremål för ersättning som gemensamt haveri.
Regel XII - Skada på lasten genom lossning etc.
Skada på eller förlust av last, bränsle eller utrustningsartiklar, vilken uppstått till följd av hanteringen, lossningen, uppläggningen, återinlastningen och stuvningen skall ersättas såsom gemensamt haveri, då och endast då kostnaderna för dessa åtgärder ersätts i gemensamt haveri.
Regel XIII - Avdrag på reparationskostnader
Reparationer som skall ersättas i gemensamt haveri skall inte underkastas avdrag för "nytt mot gammalt" då gammalt material eller gamla delar ersätts med nytt, såvida inte fartyget är över femton år gammalt, i vilket fall avdrag med en tredjedel skall göras.
Avdragen skall bestämmas efter fartygets ålder räknat från den 31 december det år då nybyggnaden färdigställdes intill dagen för gemensamt-haveri-akten utom ifråga om isolering, livbåtar och liknande båtar, apparater och utrustning för kommunikation och navigering, maskineri och pannor, för vilka avdragen skall bestämmas efter åldern av de särskilda delar vartill de hänför sig.
Avdragen skall göras endast på kostnaden för nytt material eller nya delar när materialet eller delarna är färdiga att insättas i fartyget.
Inga avdrag skall göras för proviant, utrustningsartiklar, ankare eller ankarkättingar.
Torrdocks-, slip- och förhalningskostnader skall ersättas fullt.
Kostnaderna för rengöring, målning eller strykning av botten skall inte ersättas i gemensamt haveri såvida inte botten blivit målad eller struken inom tolv månader före gemensamt-haveri-akten, i vilket fall hälften av sådan kostnad skall ersättas.
Regel XIV - Provisoriska reparationer
Då provisoriska reparationer utförs på ett fartyg i en lastnings-, mellan- eller nödhamn för det helas räddning eller till avhjälpande av skada, förorsakad av uppoffring av gemensamt haveris natur, skall kostnaden för sådana reparationer ersättas som gemensamt haveri.
Då provisoriska reparationer av en skada som uppkommit genom olyckshändelse utförs för att möjliggöra resans fullbordande, skall kostnaden för sådana reparationer ersättas som gemensamt haveri utan hänsyn till den besparing som kan ha uppstått för andra intressen, men endast i den mån därigenom inbesparas utgift, som, om inte de provisoriska reparationerna utförts, skulle ha uppkommit och skulle ha ersatts i gemensamt haveri.
Inga avdrag för skillnad av "nytt mot gammalt" görs från kostnad för provisoriska reparationer, vilken ersätts såsom gemensamt haveri.
Regel XV - Förlust av frakt
Fraktförlust härrörande från skada på eller förlust av last skall ersättas som gemensamt haveri, när den förorsakats av en gemensamt-haveri-akt eller när skadan på eller förlusten av lasten ersätts som gemensamt haveri.
Från beloppet av den förlorade bruttofrakten skall avdragas kostnader, vilka fraktens ägare skulle haft att vidkännas för fraktens intjänande men vilka till följd av uppoffringen inte uppkommit.
Regel XVI - Ersättning för last som förlorats eller skadats genom uppoffring
Det ersättningsbelopp, som utgår i gemensamt haveri för skada på eller förlust av uppoffrad last skall motsvara den förlust, som uppkommit genom uppoffringen, beräknad efter värdet vid tiden för lossningen fastställt med ledning av den handelsfaktura mottagaren erhållit eller, om sådan inte finns, med ledning av avskeppningsvärdet. Värdet vid tiden för lossningen skall innefatta kostnaderna för försäkring och frakt, dock inte i den utsträckning annan än lastintressenten står risken för frakten.
Då sålunda skadad last försäljs, och skadans storlek inte annorledes överenskommits, skall den i gemensamt haveri ersättningsgilla förlusten utgöra skillnaden mellan behållningen av försäljningen och nettovärdet i oskadat skick beräknat såsom anges i regelns första stycke.
Regel XVII - Bidragande värden
Gemensamt haveri skall fördelas efter de verkliga nettovärden egendomen ägde vid resans slut, varvid dock lastens värde skall utgöra värdet vid tiden för lossningen fastställt med ledning av den handelsfaktura mottagaren erhållit eller, om sådan inte finns, med ledning av avskeppningsvärdet. Lastens värde skall innefatta kostnaden för försäkring och frakt, dock inte i den utsträckning annan än lastintressenten står risken för frakten, med avdrag för sådan förlust eller skada på lasten som uppkommit före eller under lossningen. Fartygets värde skall bestämmas utan hänsynstagande till den värdeökning eller värdeminskning som kan bero av det kontrakt om skeppslega (demise charter) eller tidscerteparti som må gälla för fartyget.
Till dessa värden skall läggas den ersättning i gemensamt haveri för uppoffrad egendom som inte redan ingår däri. Från för risk utsatta frakt- och passageraravgifter avdrages sådana kostnader och hyror till besättningen, som inte skulle ha uppkommit för fraktens intjänande i händelse fartyg och last totalt förlorats, när gemensamt-haveri-akten ägde rum, och vilka inte ersätts såsom gemensamt haveri. Likaledes avdrages från den bidragande egendomens värde alla kostnader, som på densamma uppstått efter gemensamt-haveri-akten med undantag av sådana kostnader, vilka ersätts som gemensamt haveri eller hänför sig till fartyget i kraft av beviljande av en särskild ersättning enligt artikel 14 i 1989 års internationella konvention om bärgning eller enligt annan bestämmelse av liknande innebörd.
Under sådana omständigheter som beskrivs i tredje stycket, Regel G, skall last och annan egendom bidraga på basis av värdet vid leveransen till den ursprungliga bestämmelseorten, om inte lasten och egendomen försålts eller på annat sätt disponerats innan de nått bestämmelseorten, medan fartyget skall bidraga med sitt verkliga nettovärde vid den tidpunkt då lossningen av lasten avslutats.
Då last försäljs innan den nått bestämmelseorten skall den emellertid bidraga på grundval av behållningen av försäljningen jämte eventuell ersättning i gemensamt haveri.
Post, passagerares resgods och personliga effekter och medföljande privata motorfordon skall inte bidra i gemensamt haveri.
Regel XVIII - Skada på fartyg
Det belopp, vilket skall ersättas som gemensamt haveri för skada eller förlust som drabbat fartyg, dess maskineri och/eller tillbehör och som föranletts av en gemensamt-haveri-akt skall beräknas sålunda:
(a) Då reparation eller nyanskaffning sker:
Den verkliga och skäliga kostnaden för sådan reparation eller nyanskaffning, efter avdrag enligt Regel XIII.
(b) Då reparation eller nyanskaffning inte sker:
Den skäliga värdeminskning som föranleds av sådan skada eller förlust, dock inte utöver den uppskattade reparationskostnaden; men då fartyget gått totalt förlorat eller då kostnaden för reparation av skadan skulle överstiga värdet av fartyget efter reparation, skall ersättningen i gemensamt haveri utgöra skillnaden mellan det uppskattade värdet av fartyget i oskadat skick med avdrag för den uppskattade kostnaden för reparation av skada som inte är av gemensamt-haveri-natur och värdet av fartyget i skadat skick, vilket kan beräknas med ledning av behållningen av en eventuell försäljning.
Regel XIX - Oanmäld eller oriktigt angiven last
Skada på eller förlust av gods, som inlastats utan redarens eller hans ombuds vetskap, eller gods, som avsiktligt betecknats oriktigt vid avskeppningen, ersätts inte som gemensamt haveri, men sådant gods är bidragspliktigt, om det räddas.
Skada på eller förlust av gods, som vid avskeppningen angivits till ett lägre värde än det verkliga, skall ersättas som gemensamt haveri efter det angivna värdet, men sådant gods är bidragspliktigt efter sitt verkliga värde.
Regel XX - Anskaffande av penningmedel
En kommission av 2 % på andra gemensamt-haveri-utlägg än hyror och underhåll till befäl och besättning samt bränsle och utrustningsartiklar som inte förnyats under resan, ersätts som gemensamt haveri.
Den kapitalförlust som uppstår för ägare till gods som sålts i syfte att anskaffa medel för att bestrida gemensamt-haveri-utgifter ersätts som gemensamt haveri.
Kostnaden för försäkring av gemensamt-haveri-utgifter ersätts likaledes som gemensamt haveri.
Regel XXI - Ränta på utgifter ersatta i gemensamt haveri
Ränta på utgifter, uppoffringar och ersättningar i gemensamt haveri skall gottgöras efter en räntesats av 7 % om året intill dess tre månader har förflutit efter dagen för utfärdandet av generaldispaschen, varvid hänsyn skall tagas till all förskottsbetalning från haveriintressent eller från det gemensamma haveriets depositionsfond.
Regel XXII - Behandling av deponerade belopp
Då kontanta belopp deponerats till säkerhet för lasts ansvarighet beträffande gemensamt haveri, bärgningskostnad eller enskilda kostnader skall sådana deponerade belopp utan varje dröjsmål insättas på ett särskilt konto i två personers gemensamma namn, varav den ene skall utses för redaren och den andre för deponenterna, i en bank som godkänns av båda. Sålunda deponerade belopp jämte eventuellt upplupen ränta skall tjäna som säkerhet för betalning till dem som är berättigade till sådant bidrag till gemensamt haveri, bärgningskostnad eller enskilda kostnader som skall betalas för last beträffande vilken depositionerna gjorts.
Förskottsbetalningar eller återbetalningar av deponerade belopp må göras i enlighet med skriftligt intyg av dispaschören. Deposition, förskottsbetalning eller återbetalning är utan verkan beträffande den slutliga ansvarigheten parterna emellan.
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.