Title: Lag (2008:1301) om avtal mellan Sverige och Isle of Man om utbyte av upplysningar i skatteärenden
SFS Number: Svensk författningssamling 2008:1301
URL: https://www.riksdagen.se/sv/dokument-och-lagar/dokument/svensk-forfattningssamling/lag-20081301-om-avtal-mellan-sverige-och-isle_sfs-2008-1301/
Source Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfst?bet=2008:1301
Amendment Register Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfsr?bet=2008:1301
Ministry/Authority: Finansdepartementet S3
Issued: 2008-11-27
Metadata: {"Utfärdad": "2008-11-27", "Ändrad": "t.o.m. SFS 2008:1323"}

==================================================

Lag (2008:1301) om avtal mellan Sverige och Isle of Man om utbyte av upplysningar i skatteärenden
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.
SFS nr
:     
2008:1301
Departement/myndighet
:   
Finansdepartementet S3
Utfärdad
:   
2008-11-27
Ändrad
:   
t.o.m. SFS 2008:1323
Ändringsregister
:
SFSR (Regeringskansliet)
Källa
:
Fulltext (Regeringskansliet)
Innehåll:
Övergångsbestämmelser
1 §
Det avtal om utbyte av upplysningar i skatteärenden som Konungariket Sverige och Isle of Man undertecknade den 30 oktober 2007 ska tillsammans med den skriftväxling som är fogad till avtalet och som utgör en integrerande del av detta gälla som lag här i landet. Avtalet och skriftväxlingen är avfattade på engelska. Den engelska texten samt en svensk översättning framgår av bilaga till denna lag.
Övergångsbestämmelser
2008:1301
1. Denna lag träder i kraft den dag regeringen bestämmer.
2. Denna lag ska tillämpas för beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari året efter det år då lagen träder i kraft eller senare eller, om beskattningsår saknas, på skatt som tas ut den 1 januari året efter det år då lagen träder i kraft eller senare.
I ärenden som utgör skattebrottsärenden enligt avtalet ska lagen tillämpas från och med ikraftträdandet.
Bilaga
(Översättning)
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN AND THE ISLE OF MAN FOR THE EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION RELATING TO TAX MATTERS
Whereas the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Government of the Isle of Man ("the Parties") have long been active in international efforts in the fight against financial and other crimes, including the targeting of terrorist financing;
Whereas it is acknowledged that the Isle of Man under the terms of its Entrustment from the United Kingdom has the right to negotiate, conclude, perform and subject to the terms of this Agreement terminate a tax information exchange agreement with the Kingdom of Sweden;
Whereas the Isle of Man entered into a political commitment to the OECD's principles of effective exchange of information;
Whereas the Parties wish to enhance and facilitate the terms and conditions governing the exchange of information relating to taxes;
Now, therefore, the Parties have agreed to conclude the following Agreement which contains obligations on the part of the Parties only:
Article 1
Scope of the agreement
The Parties shall provide assistance through exchange of information that is foreseeably relevant to the administration and enforcement of the domestic laws of the Parties concerning taxes covered by this Agreement, including information that is foreseeably relevant to the determination, assessment and collection of such taxes, the recovery and enforcement of tax claims with respect to persons liable to such taxes, or to the investigation or prosecution of tax matters in relation to such persons. A requested Party is not obliged to provide information which is neither held by its authorities nor in the possession of nor obtainable by persons who are within its territorial jurisdiction. The rights and safeguards secured to persons by the laws or administrative practice of the requested Party remain applicable. The requested Party shall use its best endeavours to ensure that the effective exchange of information is not unduly prevented or delayed.
Article 2
Taxes covered
1. This Agreement shall apply to the following taxes imposed by the Parties:
(a) in the case of Sweden:
(i) the national income tax (den statliga inkomstskatten);
(ii) the withholding tax on dividends (kupongskatten);
(iii) the income tax on non-residents (den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta);
(iv) the income tax on non-resident artistes and athletes (den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta artister m.fl.);
and
(v) the municipal income tax (den kommunala inkomstskatten);
(b) in the case of Isle of Man:
taxes on income or profit.
2. This Agreement shall apply also to any identical taxes imposed after the date of signature of the Agreement in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes. This Agreement shall also apply to any substantially similar taxes imposed after the date of signature of the Agreement in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes if the Parties so agree.
Furthermore, the taxes covered may be expanded or modified by mutual agreement of the Parties in the form of an exchange of letters. The competent authority of each Party shall notify the other of substantial changes in laws which may affect the obligations of that Party pursuant to this Agreement.
Article 3
Definitions
1. In this Agreement:
(a) "Sweden" means the Kingdom of Sweden and, when used in a geographical sense, includes the national territory, the territorial sea of Sweden as well as other maritime areas over which Sweden in accordance with international law exercises sovereign rights or jurisdiction;
(b) "Isle of Man" means the island of the Isle of Man;
(c) "company" means any body corporate or any entity that is treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;
(d) "competent authority" means, in the case of the Isle of Man, the Assessor of Income Tax or his delegate and in the case of Sweden, the Minister of Finance, his authorised representative or the authority which is designated as a competent authority for the purposes of this Agreement;
(e) "criminal laws" means all criminal laws designated as such under domestic law, irrespective of whether such are contained in the tax laws, the criminal code or other statutes;
(f) "criminal tax matters" means tax matters involving intentional conduct which is liable to prosecution under the criminal laws of the requesting Party;
(g) "information gathering measures" means laws and administrative or judicial procedures enabling the requested Party to obtain and provide the information requested;
(h) "information" means any fact, statement, document or record in whatever form;
(i) "legal privilege" means
(i) communications between a professional legal advisor and his client or any person representing his client made in connection with the giving of legal advice to the client;
(ii) communications between a professional legal advisor and his client or any person representing his client or between such an advisor or his client or any such representative and any other person made in connection with, or in contemplation of, legal proceedings and for the purposes of such proceedings;
and
(iii) items enclosed with or referred to in such communications and made
(a) in connection with the giving of legal advice; or
(b) in connection with, or in contemplation of, legal proceedings and for the purposes of such proceedings, when they are in the possession of a person who is entitled to possession of them.
Items held with the intention of furthering a criminal purpose are not subject to legal privilege;
(j) "person" means a natural person a company or any other body or group of persons;
(k) "public collective investment scheme" means any scheme or fund, in which the purchase, sale or redemption of shares or other interests is not implicitly or explicitly restricted to a limited group of investors;
(l) "publicly traded company" means any company whose principal class of shares is listed on a recognised stock exchange provided its listed shares can be readily purchased or sold by the public. Shares can be purchased or sold "by the public" if the purchase or sale of shares is not implicitly or explicitly restricted to a limited group of investors;
(m) "principal class of shares" means the class or classes of shares representing a majority of the voting power and value of the company;
(n) "recognised stock exchange" means any stock exchange agreed upon by the competent authorities of the Parties;
(o) "requested Party" means the Party to this Agreement which is requested to provide or has provided information in response to a request;
(p) "requesting Party" means the Party to this Agreement submitting a request for or having received information from the requested Party;
(q) "tax" means any tax covered by this Agreement.
2. As regards the application of this Agreement at any time by a Party, any term not defined therein shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the meaning that it has at that time under the law of that Party, any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that Party prevailing over a meaning given to the term under other laws of that Party.
Article 4
Exchange of information upon request
1. The competent authority of the requested Party shall provide upon request by the requesting Party information for the purposes referred to in Article 1. Such information shall be exchanged without regard to whether the requested Party needs such information for its own tax purposes or the conduct being investigated would constitute a crime under the laws of the requested Party if it had occurred in the territory of the requested Party. The competent authority of the requesting Party shall only make a request for information pursuant to this Article when it is unable to obtain the requested information by other means, except where recourse to such means would give rise to disproportionate difficulty.
2. If the information in the possession of the competent authority of the requested Party is not sufficient to enable it to comply with the request for information, the requested Party shall at its own discretion use all relevant information gathering measures necessary to provide the requesting Party with the information requested, notwithstanding that the requested Party may not need such information for its own tax purposes.
3. If specifically requested by the competent authority of the requesting Party, the competent authority of the requested Party shall provide information under this Article, to the extent allowable under its domestic laws, in the form of depositions of witnesses and authenticated copies of original records.
4. Each Party shall ensure that it has the authority, for the purposes referred to in Article 1, to obtain and provide, through its competent authority and upon request:
(a) information held by banks, other financial institutions, and any person, including nominees and trustees, acting in an agency or fiduciary capacity;
(b) (i) information regarding the beneficial ownership of companies, partnerships, foundations and other persons, including in the case of collective investment schemes, information on shares, units and other interests;
(ii) in the case of trusts, information on settlors, trustees and beneficiaries.
Further, this Agreement does not create an obligation for a Party to obtain or provide ownership information with respect to publicly traded companies or public collective investment schemes, unless such information can be obtained without giving rise to disproportionate difficulties.
5. Any request for information shall be formulated with the greatest detail possible in specifying in writing;
(a) the identity of the person under examination or investigation;
(b) the period for which the information is requested;
(c) the nature of the information requested and the form in which the requesting Party would prefer to receive it;
(d) the tax purpose for which the information is sought;
(e) the reasons for believing that the information requested is foreseeably relevant to tax administration and enforcement of the requesting Party, with respect to the person identified in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph;
(f) grounds for believing that the information requested is held in the requested Party or is in the possession of or obtainable by a person within the jurisdiction of the requested Party;
(g) to the extent known, the name and address of any person believed to be in possession or control of the information requested;
(h) a statement that the request is in conformity with the laws and administrative practices of the requesting Party, that if the requested information was within the jurisdiction of the requesting Party then the competent authority of the requesting Party would be able to obtain the information under the laws of the requesting Party or in the normal course of administrative practice and that it is in conformity with this Agreement;
(i) a statement that the requesting Party has pursued all means available in its own territory to obtain the information, except those that would give rise to disproportionate difficulty.
6. The competent authority of the requested Party shall acknowledge receipt of the request to the competent authority of the requesting Party and shall use its best endeavours to forward the requested information to the requesting Party as soon as possible.
Artikel 5
Tax examinations abroad
1. With reasonable notice, the requesting Party may request that the requested Party allow representatives of the competent authority of the requesting Party to enter the territory of the requested Party, to the extent permitted under its domestic laws, to interview individuals and examine records with the written consent of the individuals or other persons concerned.
The competent authority of the requesting Party shall notify the competent authority of the requested Party of the time and place of the intended meeting with the individuals concerned.
2. At the request of the competent authority of the requesting Party, the competent authority of the requested Party may permit representatives of the competent authority of the requesting Party to attend a tax examination in the territory of the requested Party.
3. If the request referred to in paragraph 2 is granted, the competent authority of the requested Party conducting the examination shall, as soon as possible, notify the competent authority of the requesting Party of the time and place of the examination, the authority or person authorised to carry out the examination and the procedures and conditions required by the requested Party for the conduct of the examination. All decisions regarding the conduct of the examination shall be made by the requested Party conducting the examination.
Article 6
Possibility of declining a request
1. The competent authority of the requested Party may decline to assist:
(a) where the request is not made in conformity with this Agreement;
(b) where the requesting Party has not pursued all means available in its own territory to obtain the information, except where recourse to such means would give rise to disproportionate difficulty; or
(c) where the disclosure of the information requested would be contrary to public policy (ordre public).
2. This Agreement shall not impose upon a requested Party any obligation to provide items subject to legal privilege, or any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional secret or trade process, provided that information described in Article 4(4) shall not by reason of that fact alone be treated as such a secret or trade process.
3. A request for information shall not be refused on the ground that the tax claim giving rise to the request is disputed.
4. The requested Party shall not be required to obtain and provide information which, if the requested information was within the jurisdiction of the requesting Party, the competent authority of the requesting Party would not be able to obtain under its laws or in the normal course of administrative practice.
5. The requested Party may decline a request for information if the information is requested by the requesting Party to administer or enforce a provision of the tax law of the requesting Party, or any requirement connected therewith, which discriminates against a national or citizen of the requested Party as compared with a national or citizen of the requesting Party in the same circumstances.
Article 7
Confidentiality
1. All information provided and received by the competent authorities of the Parties shall be kept confidential.
2. Such information shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities (including courts and administrative bodies)
concerned with the purposes specified in Article 1, and used by such persons or authorities only for such purposes, including the determination of any appeal. For these purposes, information may be disclosed in public court proceedings or in judicial decisions.
3. Such information may not be used for any purpose other than for the purposes stated in Article 1 without the express written consent of the competent authority of the requested Party.
4. Information provided to a requesting Party under this Agreement may not be disclosed to any other jurisdiction.
Article 8
Costs
Unless the competent authorities of the Parties otherwise agree, ordinary costs incurred in providing assistance shall be borne by the requested Party, and extraordinary costs incurred in providing assistance (including costs of engaging external advisors in connection with litigation or otherwise) shall be borne by the requesting Party. The respective competent authorities shall consult from time to time with regard to this Article, and in particular the competent authority of the requested Party shall consult with the competent authority of the requesting Party in advance if the costs of providing information with respect to a specific request are expected to be significant.
Article 9
Language
Requests for assistance and responses thereto shall be drawn up in English.
Article 10
Mutual agreement procedure
Where difficulties or doubts arise between the Parties regarding the implementation or interpretation of this Agreement, the respective competent authorities shall use their best efforts to resolve the matter by mutual agreement.
Article 11
Entry into force
This Agreement shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the later of the dates on which each of the Parties has notified the other in writing that the procedures required by its law have been complied with. The Agreement shall have effect:
(a) for criminal tax matters on that date; and
(b) for all other matters covered in Article 1 on that date, but only in respect of any tax year beginning on or after the first day of January of the year next following that in which this Agreement enters into force or, where there is no tax year, all charges to tax arising on or after that date.
Article 12
Termination
1. This Agreement shall remain in force until terminated by a Party. Either Party may terminate the Agreement by giving written notice of termination at least six months before the end of any calendar year. In such event, the Agreement shall cease to have effect on taxes chargeable for any tax year beginning on or after the first day of January of the year next following the end of the six months period. All requests received up to the effective date of termination will be dealt with in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
2. If the Agreement is terminated the Parties shall remain bound by the provisions of Article 7 with respect to any information obtained under this Agreement.
In witness whereof the undersigned being duly authorised thereto have signed this Agreement.
Done at Oslo, this Thirtieth day of October 2007, in duplicate in the English language.
For the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden
Ingemar Hansson
For the Government of the Isle of Man
Allan Robert Bell
I have the honour to refer to the Agreement between the Isle of Man and the Kingdom of Sweden for the Exchange of Information relating to Tax Matters (hereinafter referred to as "the Agreement") which was signed on 30 October, 2007, and to confirm, on behalf of the Government of Sweden, the following understanding reached between our two Governments.
When applying the Agreement the taxes referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Article 2 shall include the yield tax on pension funds
(avkastningsskatten på pensionsmedel).
This exchange of letters shall form an integral part of the Agreement and shall enter into force in accordance with Article 11 at the same time the Agreement enters into force.
If this is in accordance with your understanding, I would appreciate an acknowledgment from you to that effect.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
Dated at Stockholm, 25 September, 2008
Anders Borg
(Översättning)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
6th October 2008
Excellency,
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of 25 September 2008 which reads as follows:
"I have the honour - - - assurances of my highest consideration."
I have the honour to confirm, on behalf of the Government of the Isle of Man, that the treatment of the yield tax on pension funds as specified by you, is in accordance with our understanding.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration."
Allan Bell
Minister for the Treasury
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Skriftväxling den 25 september 2008 respektive den 6 oktober 2008
(Översättning)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
AVTAL MELLAN KONUNGARIKET SVERIGE OCH ISLE OF MAN OM UTBYTE AV UPPLYSNINGAR I SKATTEÄRENDEN
Då Konungariket Sveriges regering och Isle of Mans regering
("parterna") under lång tid har deltagit i internationella ansträngningar i kampen mot ekonomisk och annan brottslighet, däri inbegripet finansiering av terrorism,
då det bekräftats att Isle of Man enligt villkoren för dess bemyndigande från Förenade konungariket har rätt att förhandla, ingå, fullgöra och på de villkor som anges i detta avtal säga upp ett avtal med Konungariket Sverige om utbyte av upplysningar i skatteärenden,
då Isle of Man politiskt har förbundit sig till OECD:s principer för effektivt utbyte av upplysningar,
då parterna önskar förbättra och underlätta villkoren och förutsättningarna för utbyte av upplysningar i skatteärenden,
har parterna kommit överens om att ingå följande avtal, vilket medför skyldigheter endast för parterna:
Artikel 1
Avtalets tillämpningsområde
Parterna ska biträda varandra med handräckning genom utbyte av upplysningar som kan antas vara relevanta vid administration och verkställighet av parternas interna lagstiftning rörande skatter som omfattas av detta avtal, däri inbegripet upplysningar som kan antas vara relevanta för handläggning, fastställande och uppbörd av sådana skatter, indrivning och andra exekutiva åtgärder beträffande skattefordringar i fråga om personer som är skattskyldiga till sådana skatter eller för utredning eller åtal i skatteärenden i fråga om sådana personer. Den anmodade parten är inte skyldig att lämna upplysningar som varken innehas av dess myndigheter eller innehas av eller är tillgängliga för personer inom dess jurisdiktion. De rättigheter och skydd som tillkommer personer enligt den anmodade partens lagstiftning eller administrativa praxis förblir tillämpliga. Den anmodade parten ska anstränga sig för att säkerställa att ett effektivt utbyte av upplysningar inte otillbörligt hindras eller fördröjs.
Artikel 2
Skatter som omfattas av avtalet
1. Detta avtal ska tillämpas på följande skatter vilka påförs av parterna:
a) i Sverige:
1. den statliga inkomstskatten,
2. kupongskatten,
3. den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta,
4. den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta artister m.fl., och
5. den kommunala inkomstskatten,
b) i Isle of Man:
skatt på inkomst eller vinst.
2. Avtalet tillämpas även på skatter av samma slag som efter undertecknandet av avtalet påförs vid sidan av eller i stället för de för närvarande utgående skatterna. Om parterna avtalar härom, tillämpas avtalet även på skatter av i huvudsak likartat slag som efter undertecknandet av avtalet påförs vid sidan av eller i stället för de för närvarande utgående skatterna. Till de skatter som omfattas av avtalet kan dessutom tillägg eller ändringar göras genom ömsesidig överenskommelse mellan parterna genom utväxlande av brev. Den behöriga myndigheten i vardera parten ska meddela den andra väsentliga ändringar som gjorts i dess lagstiftning och som kan påverka denna parts skyldigheter enligt detta avtal.
Artikel 3
Definitioner
1. I detta avtal:
a) avser "Sverige" Konungariket Sverige och innefattar, när uttrycket används i geografisk betydelse, Sveriges territorium, Sveriges territorialvatten och andra havsområden över vilka Sverige, i överensstämmelse med folkrättens regler, utövar suveräna rättigheter eller jurisdiktion,
b) avser "Isle of Man" ön Isle of Man,
c) avser "bolag" juridisk person eller annan som vid beskattningen behandlas såsom juridisk person,
d) avser "behörig myndighet", i Isle of Man, "the Assessor of Income Tax" eller dennes befullmäktigade ombud och i Sverige, finansministern, dennes befullmäktigade ombud eller den myndighet åt vilken uppdras att vara behörig myndighet vid tillämpningen av detta avtal,
e) avser "strafflagstiftning" all strafflagstiftning som benämns som sådan i intern lagstiftning, oberoende av om den innefattas i skattelagstiftning, strafflagstiftning eller andra författningar,
f) avser "skattebrottsärenden" skatteärenden som omfattar uppsåtligt handlande vilket enligt strafflagstiftningen i den anmodande parten kan bli föremål för åtal,
g) avser "medel för att inhämta upplysningar" lagstiftning och administrativa åtgärder eller domstolsåtgärder vilka möjliggör för den anmodade parten att inhämta och lämna begärda upplysningar,
h) avser "upplysningar" varje omständighet, meddelande, handling eller protokoll oavsett form,
i) avser "tystnadsplikt i samband med jurdisk rådgivning"
1) kommunikation, mellan en yrkesmässig juridisk rådgivare och dennes klient eller person som företräder klienten, vid juridisk rådgivning,
2) kommunikation, mellan en yrkesmässig juridisk rådgivare och dennes klient eller person som företräder klienten eller mellan sådan rådgivare eller dennes klient eller sådan företrädare och någon person, i samband med eller under övervägandet av rättsliga förfaranden och med anledning av sådana förfaranden, och
3) upplysningar som bifogats till eller omnämns i sådan kommunikation
a) i samband med juridisk rådgivning, eller
b) i samband med eller under övervägandet av rättsliga förfaranden, och med anledning av sådana förfaranden, när dessa upplysningar innehas av en person med rätt att inneha dem.
Upplysningar som innehas i syfte att befrämja brott omfattas inte av "tystnadsplikt i samband med juridisk rådgivning",
j) avser "person" fysisk person, bolag och annan sammanslutning,
k) avser "publikt system för kollektiva investeringar" ett system eller en fond i vilken köp, försäljning eller inlösen av aktier eller andra rättigheter inte underförstått eller uttryckligen begränsats till en avgränsad krets av investerare,
l) avser "bolag vars aktier är föremål för allmän omsättning"
ett bolag vars viktigaste aktieslag är noterat på en erkänd aktiebörs under förutsättning att dess noterade aktier fritt kan köpas eller säljas av allmänheten. Aktier kan köpas eller säljas "av allmänheten" om köp eller försäljning av aktier inte underförstått eller uttryckligen begränsats till en avgränsad krets investerare,
m) avser "viktigaste aktieslag" det eller de aktieslag som representerar majoriteten av rösterna i och värdet av bolaget,
n) avser "erkänd aktiebörs" sådan börs som de behöriga myndigheterna i parterna överenskommit,
o) avser "anmodad part" den avtalspart som har anmodats att lämna eller har lämnat upplysningar på begäran,
p) avser "anmodande part" den avtalspart som begär eller har mottagit upplysningar från den anmodade parten,
q) avser "skatt" varje skatt som omfattas av detta avtal.
2. Då en part tillämpar avtalet vid en viss tidpunkt anses, såvida inte sammanhanget föranleder annat, varje uttryck som inte definierats i avtalet ha den betydelse som uttrycket har vid denna tidpunkt enligt den partens lagstiftning. Den betydelse som uttrycket har enligt tillämplig skattelagstiftning i denna part äger företräde framför den betydelse uttrycket har enligt annan lagstiftning i denna part.
Artikel 4
Utbyte av upplysningar på begäran
1. Den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten ska på begäran av den anmodande parten lämna upplysningar för de ändamål som anges i artikel 1. Sådana upplysningar ska utbytas utan avseende på om den anmodade parten har behov av upplysningarna för sina egna beskattningsändamål eller på om det handlande som är föremål för utredning skulle ha utgjort ett brott enligt den anmodade partens lagstiftning om det ägt rum inom den anmodade partens territorium. Den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten ska endast begära upplysningar enligt denna artikel när den inte kan inhämta upplysningarna genom andra åtgärder, utom i de fall då vidtagandet av sådana åtgärder skulle medföra oproportionerligt stora svårigheter.
2. Om de upplysningar som är tillgängliga för den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten inte räcker till för att tillmötesgå en begäran om upplysningar, ska den anmodade parten
- utan hinder av att den anmodade parten kanske inte har behov av upplysningarna för sina egna beskattningsändamål - efter eget gottfinnande utnyttja alla relevanta medel för att inhämta upplysningar för att lämna de begärda upplysningarna till den anmodande parten.
3. Om den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten särskilt begär det, ska den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten -
i den utsträckning detta är tillåtet enligt dess interna lagstiftning - lämna upplysningar enligt denna artikel i form av skriftliga vittnesintyg och bestyrkta kopior av handlingar.
4. Vardera parten ska säkerställa att den har befogenhet att genom sin behöriga myndighet på begäran, för de ändamål som anges i artikel 1, inhämta och lämna:
a) upplysningar som innehas av banker, andra finansiella institutioner, och annan person, däri inbegripet ombud och trustförvaltare, i egenskap av representant eller förvaltare,
b) 1) upplysningar om de verkliga ägarförhållandena i bolag, handelsbolag, stiftelser och andra personer, däri inbegripet i fråga om system för kollektiva investeringar, upplysningar om aktier, andelar och andra rättigheter,
2) i fråga om truster, upplysningar om stiftare, förvaltare och förmånstagare.
Detta avtal medför inte skyldighet för en part att inhämta eller lämna upplysningar om ägarförhållanden för bolag vars aktier är föremål för allmän omsättning eller publikt system för kollektiva investeringar, såvida inte sådana upplysningar kan inhämtas utan att det medför oproportionerligt stora svårigheter.
5. Varje begäran om upplysningar ska vara skriftlig och utformad så utförligt som möjligt med uppgift om:
a) identitet på den person som är föremål för utredning eller undersökning,
b) för vilken tidsperiod upplysningar begärs,
c) slag av upplysningar som begärs och den form i vilken den anmodande parten önskar att upplysningarna ska lämnas,
d) det beskattningsändamål för vilket upplysningarna efterfrågas,
e) skälen för att anta att de begärda upplysningarna kan antas vara relevanta i den anmodande parten vid skatteadministration och verkställighet i fråga om den person som identifieras enligt a) i denna punkt,
f) skälen för att anta att de begärda upplysningarna finns i den anmodade parten eller innehas av eller är tillgängliga för en person inom den anmodade partens territorium,
g) såvitt det är känt, namn och adress på person som antas inneha eller kontrollera de begärda upplysningarna,
h) uppgift om att begäran är i överensstämmelse med lagstiftning och administrativ praxis i den anmodande parten och att den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten - om de begärda upplysningarna fanns inom denna parts jurisdiktion -
skulle kunna inhämta upplysningarna enligt lagstiftning eller vedertagen administrativ praxis i den anmodande parten samt att begäran är i överensstämmelse med detta avtal,
i) uppgift om att den anmodande parten har vidtagit alla åtgärder för att inhämta upplysningarna som står till dess förfogande inom dess eget territorium, utom sådana åtgärder som skulle medföra oproportionerligt stora svårigheter.
6. Den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten ska till den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten bekräfta mottagandet av begäran och ska bemöda sig om att snarast möjligt lämna de begärda upplysningarna till den anmodande parten.
Artikel 5
Utomlands utförda skatteutredningar
1. Den anmodande parten får med skäligt varsel begära att den anmodade parten medger att företrädare för den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten närvarar i den anmodade parten - i den utsträckning detta är tillåtet enligt dess interna lagstiftning - för att höra fysiska personer och granska handlingar efter skriftligt medgivande av de fysiska personer eller andra som berörs. Den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten ska meddela den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten tid och plats för det planerade mötet med personerna i fråga.
2. På begäran av den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten kan den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten medge att företrädare för den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten är närvarande vid skatteutredning på den anmodade partens territorium.
3. Bifalls en begäran enligt punkt 2 ska den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten som utför utredningen snarast möjligt meddela den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten tid och plats för utredningen, den myndighet eller person som bemyndigats att utföra utredningen samt de förfaranden och villkor som den anmodade parten fastställt för utförandet av utredningen. Alla beslut beträffande utförandet av utredningen ska fattas av den anmodade parten som utför utredningen.
Artikel 6
Möjlighet att avslå begäran
1. Den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten får avslå en begäran
a) när begäran inte gjorts i överensstämmelse med detta avtal,
b) när den anmodande parten inte har vidtagit alla de åtgärder för att inhämta upplysningarna som står till dess förfogande inom dess eget territorium, utom i de fall då vidtagandet av sådana åtgärder skulle medföra oproportionerligt stora svårigheter, eller
c) när lämnandet av de begärda upplysningarna skulle strida mot allmänna hänsyn (ordre public).
2. Detta avtal ska inte medföra skyldighet för den anmodade parten att lämna upplysningar som omfattas av "tystnadsplikt i samband med juridisk rådgivning" eller handels-, affärs-, industri- eller yrkeshemlighet eller kommersiell hemlighet eller i näringsverksamhet nyttjat förfaringssätt, med förbehåll för att upplysningar inte ska anses som sådan hemlighet eller sådant förfaringssätt enbart på grund av att de är sådana som anges i artikel 4.4.
3. En begäran om upplysningar ska inte avslås på grund av att den skattefordran som föranleder begäran bestridits.
4. Den anmodade parten har inte skyldighet att inhämta och lämna upplysningar som den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten - om de begärda upplysningarna fanns inom denna parts jurisdiktion - inte kan inhämta enligt dess lagstiftning eller vedertagen administrativ praxis.
5. Den anmodade parten får avslå en begäran om upplysningar, om upplysningarna begärs av den anmodande parten för att administrera eller verkställa en bestämmelse i den anmodande partens skattelagstiftning eller därmed sammanhängande krav som diskriminerar en medborgare i den anmodade parten i förhållande till en medborgare i den anmodande parten under samma förhållanden.
Article 7
Sekretess
1. Alla upplysningar som lämnas och mottas av de behöriga myndigheterna i parterna ska hållas hemliga.
2. Sådana upplysningar får yppas endast för personer eller myndigheter (däri inbegripet domstolar och förvaltningsorgan)
som har befattning med de ändamål som anges i artikel 1 och får användas av dessa personer eller myndigheter endast för sådana ändamål, däri inbegripet handläggning av överklagande. För dessa ändamål får upplysningarna yppas vid offentlig rättegång eller i domstolsavgöranden.
3. Sådana upplysningar får inte utan uttryckligt skriftligt medgivande av den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten användas för andra ändamål än de som anges i artikel 1.
4. Upplysningar som lämnats till en anmodande part enligt detta avtal får inte yppas för annan jurisdiktion.
Artikel 8
Kostnader
Såvida inte annat överenskoms av de behöriga myndigheterna i parterna ska den anmodade parten svara för sedvanliga kostnader för handräckning och den anmodande parten för kostnader för handräckning som inte kan anses sedvanliga (däri inbegripet kostnader för att anlita utomstående rådgivare i samband med process eller för annat ändamål). De behöriga myndigheterna ska från tid till annan överlägga i fråga om denna artikel och särskilt den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten ska i förväg överlägga med den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten om kostnaderna för att lämna upplysningar med anledning av en viss begäran förväntas bli höga.
Artikel 9
Språk
Begäran om handräckning och svar på sådan begäran ska upprättas på engelska.
Artikel 10
Ömsesidig överenskommelse
När svårigheter eller tvivelsmål uppkommer mellan parterna i fråga om tillämpning eller tolkning av detta avtal ska de behöriga myndigheterna anstränga sig för att avgöra saken genom ömsesidig överenskommelse.
Artikel 11
Ikraftträdande
Detta avtal träder i kraft den trettionde dagen efter den dag då den sista av de skriftliga underrättelser - som respektive regering ska lämna när de åtgärder vidtagits som krävs enligt respektive parts lagstiftning - har lämnats. Avtalet ska tillämpas:
a) i skattebrottsärenden: från och med denna dag,
b) i alla andra ärenden som omfattas av artikel 1: från och med denna dag, dock endast för beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari det år som följer närmast efter det år då avtalet träder i kraft eller senare, eller om beskattningsår saknas, på skatt som tas ut samma dag eller senare.
Artikel 12
Upphörande
1. Detta avtal förblir i kraft till dess det sägs upp av en part. Vardera parten kan skriftligen säga upp avtalet genom underrättelse härom minst sex månader före utgången av något kalenderår. I händelse av sådan uppsägning upphör avtalet att gälla i fråga om skatt som påförs för beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari det år som följer närmast efter utgången av sexmånadersperioden eller senare. Begäran som mottagits före den dag avtalet upphör att gälla ska behandlas enligt villkoren i detta avtal.
2. Om avtalet sägs upp ska parterna vara fortsatt bundna av bestämmelserna i artikel 7 i fråga om upplysningar som mottagits enligt detta avtal.
Till bekräftelse härav har undertecknade, därtill vederbörligen bemyndigade, undertecknat detta avtal.
Som skedde i Oslo den 30 oktober 2007 i två exemplar på engelska språket.
För Konungariket Sveriges regering
Ingemar Hansson
För Isle of Mans regering
Allan Robert Bell
Jag har äran att hänvisa till det den 30 oktober 2007 undertecknade avtalet mellan Isle of Man och Konungariket Sverige om utbyte av upplysningar i skatteärenden (i det följande benämnt: avtalet), samt att på uppdrag av Sveriges regering bekräfta följande överenskommelse som träffats mellan våra båda regeringar.
Vid tillämpning av avtalet ska de skatter som anges i artikel 2 punkt 1 a) inbegripa avkastningsskatten på pensionsmedel.
Denna skriftväxling ska utgöra en integrerande del av avtalet och ska träda i kraft i överensstämmelse med artikel 11 vid samma tidpunkt som avtalet träder i kraft.
Om detta är i överensstämmelse med Er uppfattning, skulle jag uppskatta en bekräftelse på detta från Er.
Mottag, Ers Excellens, denna förnyade försäkran om min utmärkta högaktning.
Undertecknat i Stockholm den 25 september 2008
Anders Borg
6 oktober 2008
Ers Excellens,
Jag har äran att bekräfta mottagandet av Ert brev daterat den 25 september 2008 som lyder enligt följande:
"Jag har äran - - - försäkran om min utmärkta högaktning."
Jag har äran att bekräfta, på Isle of Mans regerings vägnar, att den av Er föreslagna behandlingen av avkastningsskatten på pensionsmedel, är i överensstämmelse med vår uppfattning.
Mottag, Ers Excellens, denna förnyade försäkran om min utmärkta högaktning.
Allan Bell
Minister for the Treasury
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.