Title: Lag (2012:638) om skatteavtal mellan Sverige och Mauritius
SFS Number: Svensk författningssamling 2012:638
URL: https://www.riksdagen.se/sv/dokument-och-lagar/dokument/svensk-forfattningssamling/lag-2012638-om-skatteavtal-mellan-sverige-och_sfs-2012-638/
Source Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfst?bet=2012:638
Amendment Register Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfsr?bet=2012:638
Ministry/Authority: Finansdepartementet S3
Issued: 2012-11-01
Metadata: {"Utfärdad": "2012-11-01", "Ändrad": "t.o.m. SFS 2012:685"}

==================================================

Lag (2012:638) om skatteavtal mellan Sverige och Mauritius
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.
SFS nr
:     
2012:638
Departement/myndighet
:   
Finansdepartementet S3
Utfärdad
:   
2012-11-01
Ändrad
:   
t.o.m. SFS 2012:685
Ändringsregister
:
SFSR (Regeringskansliet)
Källa
:
Fulltext (Regeringskansliet)
Innehåll:
Övergångsbestämmelser
1 §
Det avtal för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning och förhindrande av skatteflykt beträffande skatter på inkomst och på förmögenhet som Sverige och Mauritius undertecknade den 1 december 2011 ska, tillsammans med det protokoll som är fogat till avtalet och som utgör en del av detta, gälla som lag här i landet.
Innehållet i avtalet och protokollet som fogats till avtalet framgår av bilaga till denna lag.
2 §
Avtalets beskattningsregler ska tillämpas endast till den del dessa medför inskränkning av den skattskyldighet i Sverige som annars skulle föreligga.
Övergångsbestämmelser
2012:638
1. Denna lag träder i kraft den dag regeringen bestämmer.
2. Denna lag ska tillämpas i fråga om
a) källskatter, på belopp som betalas eller tillgodoförs den 1 januari det år som följer närmast efter den dag då lagen träder i kraft eller senare, och
b) andra skatter på inkomst, och skatter på förmögenhet, på skatt som tas ut för beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari det år som följer närmast efter den dag då lagen träder i kraft eller senare.
3. Genom lagen upphävs lagen (1992:1195) om dubbelbeskattningsavtal mellan Sverige och Mauritius.
Den upphävda författningen ska dock fortfarande tillämpas i fråga om
a) källskatter, på belopp som betalas eller tillgodoförs före den 1 januari det år som följer närmast efter den dag då lagen träder i kraft, och
b) andra skatter på inkomst, på skatt som tas ut för beskattningsår som börjar före den 1 januari det år som följer närmast efter den dag då lagen träder i kraft.
Bilaga
Convention between the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Mauritius for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and on capital
The Government of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Government of the Republic of Mauritius, desiring to conclude a Convention for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and on capital, have agreed as follows:
Article 1
Persons covered
1. This Convention shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States.  2. In the case of an item of income derived by or through a person that is fiscally transparent under the laws of either Contracting State, such item shall be considered to be derived by a resident of a State to the extent that the item is treated for the purposes of the taxation law of such State as the income of a resident.
Article 2
Taxes covered
1. This Convention shall apply to taxes on income and on capital imposed on behalf of a Contracting State or of its political subdivisions or local authorities, irrespective of the manner in which they are levied.
2. There shall be regarded as taxes on income and on capital all taxes imposed on total income, on total capital, or on elements of income or of capital, including taxes on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property, as well as taxes on capital appreciation.
3. The taxes to which this Convention shall apply are:
(a) In Mauritius: the income tax
(hereinafter referred to as "Mauritius tax");
(b) in Sweden:
(i) the national income tax (den statliga inkomstskatten);
(ii) the withholding tax on dividends (kupongskatten);
(iii) the income tax on non-residents (den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta);
(iv) the income tax on non-resident artistes and athletes (den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta artister m.fl.);
(v) the municipal income tax (den kommunala inkomstskatten);
and
(vi) the net wealth tax (den statliga förmögenhetsskatten)
(hereinafter referred to as "Swedish tax").
4. The Convention shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes that are imposed after the date of signature of the Convention in addition to, or in place of, the taxes referred to in paragraph 3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall notify each other of any significant changes which have been made in their respective taxation laws.
Article 3
General definitions
1. For the purposes of this Convention, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) the term "Mauritius" means all the territories, including all the islands, which, in accordance with the laws of Mauritius, constitute the State of Mauritius and includes:
(i) the territorial sea of Mauritius; and       (ii) any area outside
the territorial sea of Mauritius which in accordance with international law has been or may hereafter be designated, under the laws of Mauritius relating to the Continental Shelf as an area within which the rights of Mauritius with respect to the sea, the sea bed and sub-soil and their natural resources may be exercised;
(b) the term "Sweden" means the Kingdom of Sweden and, when used in a geographical sense, includes the national territory, the territorial sea of Sweden as well as other maritime areas over which Sweden in accordance with international law exercises sovereign rights or jurisdiction;
(c) the term "person" includes an individual, a company and any other body of persons;
(d) the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity that is treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;
(e) the term "enterprise" applies to the carrying on of any business;
(f) the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and
"enterprise of the other Contracting State" mean respectively an enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the other Contracting State;
(g) the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise of a Contracting State, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other Contracting State;
(h) the term "national" means:
(i) any individual possessing the nationality or citizenship of a Contracting State;
(ii) any legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in a Contracting State;
(i) the term "competent authority" means:       (i) in Mauritius, the
Minister to whom the responsibility for the subject of finance is assigned, his authorized representative or the authority which is designated as a competent authority for the purposes of this Convention;
(ii) in Sweden, the Minister of Finance, his authorized representative or the authority which is designated as a competent authority for the purposes of this Convention;
(j) the term "business" includes the performance of professional services and of other activities of an independent character.
2. As regards the application of the Convention at any time by a Contracting State, any term not defined therein shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the meaning that it has at that time under the law of that State for the purposes of the taxes to which the Convention applies, any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that State prevailing over a meaning given to the term under other laws of that State.
Article 4
Resident
1. For the purposes of this Convention, the term "resident of a Contracting State" means any person who, under the laws of that State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of management or any other criterion of a similar nature, and also includes that State, any governmental body or agency, political subdivision or local authority thereof. The term "resident of a Contracting State" does not include any person who is liable to tax in that State in respect only of income from sources in that State or capital situated therein.
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his status shall be determined as follows:
(a) he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him; if he has a permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State with which his personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests);
(b) if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent home available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has an habitual abode;
(c) if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State of which he is a national;
(d) if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the question by mutual agreement.
3. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 a person other than an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to settle the question by mutual agreement.
Article 5
Permanent establishment
1. For the purposes of this Convention, the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business through which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
2. The term "permanent establishment" includes especially:
(a) a place of management;
(b) a branch;
(c) an office;
(d) a factory;
(e) a workshop; and
(f) a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources.
3. A building site or a construction, assembly or installation project or supervisory activities in connection therewith constitutes a permanent establishment only if it lasts for more than twelve months.
4. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed not to include:
(a) the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage, display or delivery of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise;
(b) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storage, display or delivery;
(c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of processing by another enterprise;
(d) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or of collecting information, for the enterprise;
(e) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any other activity of a preparatory or auxiliary character;
(f) an installation project carried on by an enterprise of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State in connection with delivery of machinery or equipment by that enterprise;
(g) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in sub-paragraphs (a) to
(f), provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this combination is of a preparatory or auxiliary character.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person - other than an agent of an independent status to whom paragraph 6 applies - is acting on behalf of an enterprise and has, and habitually exercises, in a Contracting State an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the enterprise, that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in that State in respect of any activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, unless the activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 4 which, if exercised through a fixed place of business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the provisions of that paragraph.
6. An enterprise shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a Contracting State merely because it carries on business in that State through a broker, general commission agent or any other agent of an independent status, provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business.
7. The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a permanent establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.
Article 6
Income from immovable property
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture or forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracting State in which the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property, livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting landed property apply, buildings, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources; ships, boats and aircraft shall not be regarded as immovable property.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form of immovable property.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise.
Article 7
Business profits
1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries on business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of them as is attributable to that permanent establishment.
2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracting State be attributed to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly independently with the enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.
3. In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions expenses which are incurred for the purposes of the business of the permanent establishment, including executive and general administrative expenses so incurred, whether in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere.
4. No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent establishment of goods or merchandise for the enterprise.
5. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall be determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
6. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separately in other Articles of this Convention, then the provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.
Article 8
Shipping and air transport
1. Profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic shall be taxable only in that State.
2. For the purposes of this Article the expression "operation of ships or aircraft" by an enterprise, also includes:
(i) the charter or rental on a bare boat basis of ships and aircraft, and
(ii) the rental of containers and related equipment;
if that charter or rental is incidental to the operation by the enterprise of ships or aircraft in international traffic.
3. With respect to profits derived by the air transport consortium Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) the provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply only to such part of the profits as corresponds to the participation held in that consortium by SAS Sverige AB, the Swedish partner of SAS.
4. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint business or an international operating agency.
Article 9
Associated enterprises
1. Where:
(a) an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of the other Contracting State, or
(b) the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of a Contracting State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State, and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or financial relations which differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but for those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have not so accrued, may be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.
2. Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of that State - and taxes accordingly - profits on which an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State and the profits so included are profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions made between the two enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other State shall make an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In determining such adjustment, due regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Convention and the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall if necessary consult each other.
Article 10
Dividends
1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a resident and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the dividends is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed 15 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends. However, if the beneficial owner is a company (other than a partnership) which holds at least 10 per cent of the voting power of the company paying the dividends, the dividends shall be exempt from tax in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a resident.
This paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.
3. The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from shares or other rights, not being debtclaims, participating in profits, as well as income from other corporate rights which is subjected to the same taxation treatment as income from shares by the laws of the State of which the company making the distribution is a resident.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment. In such case the provisions of Article 7 shall apply.
5. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives profits or income from the other Contracting State, that other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such dividends are paid to a resident of that other State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively connected with a permanent establishment situated in that other State, nor subject the company's undistributed profits to a tax on the company's undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed profits consist wholly or partly of profits or income arising in such other State.
Article 11
Interest
1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and beneficially owned by a resident of the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in that other State.
2. The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits, and in particular, income from government securities and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such securities, bonds or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purpose of this Article.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanent establishment situated therein and the debt-claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment. In such case the provisions of Article 7 shall apply.
4. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt-
claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Convention.
Article 12
Royalties
1. Royalties arising in a Contracting State and beneficially owned by a resident of the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in that other State.
2. The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of, or the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph films and films or tapes for radio or television broadcasting, any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or for information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the royalties arise, through a permanent establishment situated therein and the right or property in respect of which the royalties are paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment. In such case the provisions of Article 7 shall apply.
4. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and some other person, the amount of the royalties, having regard to the use, right or information for which they are paid, exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-
mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Convention.
Article 13
Capital gains
1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in Article 6 and situated in the other Contracting State, or from the alienation of shares in a company the assets of which consist principally of such property, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or with the whole enterprise), may be taxed in that other State.
3. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international traffic or movable property pertaining to the operation of such ships or aircraft, shall be taxable only in that State. With respect to gains derived by the air transport consortium Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS), the provisions of this paragraph shall apply only to such part of the gains as corresponds to the participation held in that consortium by SAS Sverige AB, the Swedish partner of SAS.
4. Gains from the alienation of any property other than that referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, shall be taxable only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4, gains from the alienation of any property derived by an individual who has been a resident of a Contracting State and who has become a resident of the other Contracting State, may be taxed in the first-mentioned State if the alienation of the property occurs at any time during the ten years next following the date on which the individual has ceased to be a resident of the first-
mentioned State.
Article 14
Income from employment
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 15, 17 and 18, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment is exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is derived therefrom may be taxed in that other State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State if:
(a) the recipient is present in the other State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate183 days in any twelve month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned;
and
(b) the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of the other State; and
(c) the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment which the employer has in the other State.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employment exercised aboard a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic by an enterprise of a Contracting State may be taxed in that State. Where a resident of Sweden derives remuneration in respect of an employment exercised aboard an aircraft operated in international traffic by the air transport consortium Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS), such remuneration shall be taxable only in Sweden.
Article 15
Directors' fees
Directors' fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member of the board of directors of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
Article 16
Artistes and sportsmen
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 7 and 14, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an artiste, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsman, from his personal activities as such exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an artiste or a sportsman in his capacity as such accrues not to the artiste or sportsman himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 7 and 14, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the artiste or sportsman are exercised.
3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to income derived from activities exercised in a Contracting State by an artiste or a sportsman if the visit to that State is wholly supported by public funds of the other Contracting State. In such case, the income shall be taxable only in the Contracting State in which the artiste or sportsman is a resident.
Article 17
Pensions, annuities and similar payments
1. Pensions and other similar remuneration, disbursements under the Social Security legislation and annuities arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in the first-mentioned Contracting State.
2. The term "annuity" means a stated sum payable periodically at stated times during life or during a specified or ascertainable period of time under an obligation to make the payments in return for adequate and full consideration in money or money's worth.
Article 18
Government service
1.(a) Salaries, wages and other similar remuneration, other than a pension, paid by a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or authority shall be taxable only in that State.
(b) However, such salaries, wages and other similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the services are rendered in that State and the individual is a resident of that State who:
(i)  is a national of that State; or
(ii) did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
2. The provisions of Articles 14, 15 and 16 shall apply to remuneration in respect of services rendered in connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority thereof.
Article 19
Students
Payments which a student or business apprentice who is or was immediately before visiting a Contracting State a resident of the other Contracting State and who is present in the first-
mentioned State solely for the purpose of his education or training receives for the purpose of his maintenance, education or training shall not be taxed in that State, provided that such payments arise from sources outside that State.
Article 20
Other income
1. Items of income of a resident of a Contracting State, wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this Convention shall be taxable only in that State.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income, other than income from immovable property as defined in paragraph 2 of Article 6, if the recipient of such income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein and the right or property in respect of which the income is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment. In such case the provisions of Article 7 shall apply.
Article 21
Capital
1. Capital represented by immovable property referred to in Article 6, owned by a resident of a Contracting State and situated in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Capital represented by movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
3. Capital represented by ships and aircraft operated in international traffic by an enterprise of a Contracting State and by movable property pertaining to the operation of such ships and aircraft, shall be taxable only in that State.
With respect to capital owned by the air transport consortium Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS), the provisions of this paragraph shall apply only to such part of the capital as corresponds to the participation held in that consortium by SAS Sverige AB, the Swedish partner of SAS.
4. All other elements of capital of a resident of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State.
5. If, pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Article, the right to tax capital held by an individual who is resident of a Contracting State, is vested only in that State, such capital may be taxed in the other Contracting State, where the net capital is not subject to a general tax on net capital according to the laws of the first-mentioned State.
Article 22
Elimination of double taxation
1. In the case of Mauritius, double taxation shall be eliminated as follows:
(a) Where a resident of Mauritius derives income from Sweden the amount of tax on that income payable in Sweden in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement may be credited against the Mauritius tax imposed on that resident.
(b) Where a company which is a resident of Sweden pays a dividend to a resident of Mauritius who controls, directly or indirectly, at least
5 per cent of the capital of the company paying the dividend, the credit shall take into account (in addition to any Swedish tax for which credit may be allowed under the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph) the Swedish tax payable by the first-mentioned company in respect of the profits out of which such dividend is paid.
Provided that any credit allowed under subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not exceed the Mauritius tax (as computed before allowing any such credit), which is appropriate to the profits or income derived from sources within Sweden.
2. In the case of Sweden, double taxation shall be avoided as follows:
(a) Where a resident of Sweden derives income which under the laws of Mauritius and in accordance with the provisions of this Convention may be taxed in Mauritius, Sweden shall allow -
subject to the provisions of the laws of Sweden concerning credit for foreign tax (as it may be amended from time to time without changing the general principle hereof) - as a deduction from the tax on such income, an amount equal to the Mauritius tax paid in respect of such income.
(b) Where a resident of Sweden derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, shall be taxable only in Mauritius, Sweden may, when determining the graduated rate of Swedish tax, take into account the income
which shall be taxable only in Mauritius.       (c) Notwithstanding
the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, dividends paid by a company which is a resident of Mauritius to a company which is a resident of Sweden shall be exempt from Swedish tax according to the provisions of Swedish law governing the exemption of tax on dividends paid to Swedish companies by companies abroad.  (d) Where a resident of Sweden owns capital which, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, may be taxed in Mauritius, Sweden shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the capital of that resident an amount equal to the capital tax paid in Mauritius. Such deduction shall not, however, exceed that part of the Swedish capital tax, as computed before the deduction is given, which is attributable to the capital which may be taxed in Mauritius.
Article 23
Non-discrimination
1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any requirement connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to which nationals of that other State in the same circumstances are or may be subjected.
This provision shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1, also apply to persons who are not residents of one or both of the Contracting States.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State shall not be less favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State carrying on the same activities. This provision shall not be construed as obliging a Contracting State to grant to residents of the other Contracting State any personal allowances, reliefs or reductions for taxation purposes on account of civil status or family responsibilities which it grants to its own residents.
3. Except where the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 9, paragraph 4 of Article 11, or paragraph 4 of Article 12, apply, interest, royalties and other disbursements paid by an enterprise of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable profits of such enterprise, be deductible under the same conditions as if they had been paid to a resident of the first-mentioned State. Similarly, any debts of an enterprise of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable capital of such enterprise, be deductible under the same conditions as if they had been contracted to a resident of the firstmentioned State.
4. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subject in the firstmentioned State to any taxation or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.
5. The provisions of this Article shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 2, apply to taxes of every kind and description.
Article 24
Mutual agreement procedure
1. Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, he may, irrespective of the remedies provided by the domestic law of those States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he is a resident or, if his case comes under paragraph 1 of Article 23, to that of the Contracting State of which he is a national. The case must be presented within three years from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in accordance with the provisions of the Convention.
2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arrive at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other Contracting State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Convention. Any agreement reached shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the domestic law of the Contracting States.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of the Convention. They may also consult together for the elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in the Convention.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purpose of reaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs.
Article 25
Exchange of information
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information as is foreseeably relevant for carrying out the provisions of this Convention or to the administration or enforcement of the domestic laws concerning taxes of every kind and description imposed on behalf of the Contracting States, or of their political subdivisions or local authorities, insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to the Convention. The exchange of information is not restricted by Articles 1 and 2.
2. Any information received under paragraph 1 by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner as information obtained under the domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities (including courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or prosecution in respect of, or the determination of appeals in relation to, the taxes referred to in paragraph 1, or the oversight of the above. Such persons or authorities shall use the information only for such purposes. They may disclose the information in public court proceedings or in judicial decisions.
3. In no case shall the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation:
(a) to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the other Contracting State;
(b) to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration of that or of the other Contracting State;
(c) to supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional secret or trade process, or information, the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy (ordre public).
4. If information is requested by a Contracting State in accordance with this Article, the other Contracting State shall use its information gathering measures to obtain the requested information, even though that other State may not need such information for its own tax purposes. The obligation contained in the preceding sentence is subject to the limitations of paragraph 3 but in no case shall such limitations be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply information solely because it has no domestic interest in such information.
5. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 3 be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply information solely because the information is held by a bank, other financial institution, nominee or person acting in an agency or a fiduciary capacity or because it relates to ownership interests in a person.
Article 26
Limitations of benefits
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Convention, where
(a) a company that is a resident of a Contracting State derives its income primarily from other States
(i) from activities such as financial services or shipping; or
(ii) from being the headquarters, co-ordination centre or similar entity providing administrative services or other support to a group of companies which carry on business primarily in other States; and  (b) such income would bear a significantly lower tax under the laws of that State than income from similar activities carried out within that State or from being the headquarters, co-ordination centre or similar entity providing administrative services or other support to a group of companies which carry on business in that State, as the case may be, any provisions of this Convention conferring an exemption or a reduction of tax shall not apply to the income of such company and to the dividends paid by such company.
Article 27
Members of diplomatic missions and consular posts
Nothing in this Convention shall affect the fiscal privileges of members of diplomatic missions or consular posts under the general rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
Article 28
Entry into force
1. Each of the Contracting States shall notify the other in writing of the completion of the procedures required by its law for the entry into force of this Convention.
2. The Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the receipt of the later of these notifications and shall thereupon have effect
(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited on or after the first day of January of the year next following the date on which the Convention enters into force;
(ii) in respect of other taxes on income, and taxes on capital, on taxes chargeable for any tax year beginning on or after the first day of January of the year next following the date on which the Convention enters into force.
3. The Convention between the Government of Sweden and the Government of Mauritius for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and on capital gains signed on 23 April 1992 (the 1992 Convention) shall terminate upon the entry into force of this Convention. However, the provisions of the 1992 Convention shall remain effective until the provisions of this Convention, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article, shall have effect.
Article 29
Termination
This Convention shall remain in force until terminated by a Contracting State. Either Contracting State may terminate the Convention, through diplomatic channels, by giving written notice of termination at least six months before the end of any calendar year. In such case, the Convention shall cease to have effect
(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited on or after the first day of January of the year next following the end of the six month period;
(ii) in respect of other taxes on income, and taxes on capital, on taxes chargeable for any tax year beginning on or after the first day of January of the year next following the end of the six month period.
In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, have signed this Convention.
Done at Paris, this 1st day of December 2011, in duplicate in the English language.
For the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden
Gunnar Lund
For the Government of the Republic of Mauritius
Jacques Chasteau de Balyon
Protocol
At the signing of the Convention between the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Mauritius for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and on capital, the Contracting States have agreed upon the following provisions, which shall form an integral part of the Convention:
With respect to Article 26, it is understood that
(a) the provisions of that Article shall apply to the income of, and to the dividends paid by, a company
(i) entitled to the preferential treatment as regards credit for foreign tax under regulation 8(3) of the Mauritius Income Tax (Foreign Tax Credit) Regulations 1996, or (ii) referred to in section 73A of the Mauritius Income Tax Act 1995, or (iii)
covered by any law substantially similar to the laws mentioned in (i) or (ii), enacted after the date of signature of this Convention; and
(b) the term "financial services" shall include banking, financing, insurance, assets management, custodian services, distribution of financial products, brokerage, pension scheme management, retirement benefits scheme management and treasury management.
In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, have signed this Protocol.
Done at Paris, this 1st day of December 2011, in duplicate in the English language.
For the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden
Gunnar Lund
For the Government of the Republic of Mauritius
Jacques Chasteau de Balyon
(Översättning)
Avtal mellan Konungariket Sverige och Republiken Mauritius för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning och förhindrande av skatteflykt beträffande skatter på inkomst och på förmögenhet
Konungariket Sveriges regering och Republiken Mauritius regering, som önskar ingå ett avtal för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning och förhindrande av skatteflykt beträffande skatter på inkomst och på förmögenhet, har kommit överens om följande:
Artikel 1
Personer på vilka avtalet tillämpas
1. Detta avtal tillämpas på personer som har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat eller i båda avtalsslutande staterna.
2. Inkomst som förvärvas av eller genom en person
vars inkomst enligt lagstiftningen i endera avtalsslutande staten är föremål för delägarbeskattning, ska anses förvärvad av en person med hemvist i en av staterna till den del som inkomsten, enligt skattelagstiftningen i denna stat, behandlas som inkomst hos en person med hemvist i staten i fråga.
Artikel 2
Skatter som omfattas av avtalet
1. Detta avtal tillämpas på skatter på inkomst och på förmögenhet som påförs för en avtalsslutande stats, dess politiska underavdelningars eller lokala myndigheters räkning, oberoende av det sätt på vilket skatterna tas ut.
2. Med skatter på inkomst och på förmögenhet förstås alla skatter som tas ut på inkomst eller på förmögenhet i dess helhet eller på delar av inkomst eller förmögenhet, däri inbegripet skatter på vinst på grund av överlåtelse av lös eller fast egendom, samt skatter på värdestegring.
3. De skatter på vilka detta avtal tillämpas är:
a) i Mauritius: inkomstskatten,
(i det följande benämnd "mauritisk skatt"),
b) i Sverige:
1) den statliga inkomstskatten,
2) kupongskatten,
3) den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta,
4) den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta artister m.fl.,
5) den kommunala inkomstskatten, och
6) den statliga förmögenhetsskatten,
(i det följande benämnd "svensk skatt").
4. Avtalet tillämpas även på skatter av samma eller i huvudsak likartat slag, som efter undertecknandet av avtalet påförs vid sidan av eller i stället för de skatter som anges i punkt 3. De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna ska meddela varandra de väsentliga ändringar som gjorts i respektive skattelagstiftning.
Artikel 3
Allmänna definitioner
1. Om inte sammanhanget föranleder annat, har vid tillämpningen av detta avtal följande uttryck nedan angiven betydelse:
a) "Mauritius" avser allt territorium, infattande alla öar, som i enlighet med lagstiftningen i Mauritius konstituerar staten Mauritius och innefattar:
1) Mauritius territorialvatten, och
2) varje område utanför Mauritius territorialvatten som i överensstämmelse med folkrättens regler betecknas eller senare kommer att betecknas, enligt Mauritius lagstiftning om kontinentalsockeln, som ett område inom vilket Mauritius äger utöva rättigheter med avseende på havet, havsbottnen och dess underlag samt dess naturtillgångar,
b) "Sverige" avser Konungariket Sverige och innefattar, när uttrycket används i geografisk betydelse, Sveriges territorium, Sveriges territorialvatten och andra havsområden över vilka Sverige - i överensstämmelse med folkrättens regler - utövar suveräna rättigheter eller jurisdiktion,
c) "person" inbegriper fysisk person, bolag och annan sammanslutning,
d) "bolag" avser juridisk person eller annan som vid beskattningen behandlas såsom juridisk person,
e) "företag" avser bedrivandet av varje form av rörelse,
f) "företag i en avtalsslutande stat" och "företag i den andra avtalsslutande staten" avser företag som bedrivs av en person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat, respektive företag som bedrivs av person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten,
g) "internationell trafik" avser transport med skepp eller luftfartyg som används av ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat utom då skeppet eller luftfartyget används uteslutande mellan platser i den andra avtalsslutande staten,
h) "medborgare" avser:
1) fysisk person som har medborgarskap i en avtalsslutande stat
2) juridisk person, handelsbolag eller annan sammanslutning som bildats enligt den lagstiftning som gäller i en avtalsslutande stat,
i) "behörig myndighet" avser:
1) i Mauritius, den för Mauritius finanser ansvariga ministern, dennes befullmäktigade ombud eller den myndighet åt vilken uppdras att vara behörig myndighet vid tillämpningen av detta avtal,
2) i Sverige, finansministern, dennes befullmäktigade ombud eller den myndighet åt vilken uppdras att vara behörig myndighet vid tillämpningen av detta avtal,
j) "rörelse" innefattar utövandet av fritt yrke och annan självständig verksamhet.
2. Då en avtalsslutande stat tillämpar avtalet vid någon tidpunkt anses, såvida inte sammanhanget föranleder annat, varje uttryck som inte definierats i avtalet ha den betydelse som uttrycket har vid denna tidpunkt enligt den statens lagstiftning i fråga om sådana skatter på vilka avtalet tillämpas, och den betydelse som uttrycket har enligt tillämplig skattelagstiftning i denna stat äger företräde framför den betydelse uttrycket ges i annan lagstiftning i denna stat.
Artikel 4
Hemvist
1. Vid tillämpningen av detta avtal avser uttrycket "person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat" person som enligt lagstiftningen i denna stat är skattskyldig där på grund av domicil, bosättning, plats för företagsledning eller annan liknande omständighet och innefattar också denna stat, dess offentligrättsliga organ eller institutioner, politiska underavdelningar eller lokala myndigheter. Uttrycket "person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat" inbegriper emellertid inte person som är skattskyldig i denna stat endast för inkomst från källa i denna stat eller för förmögenhet belägen där.
2. Då på grund av bestämmelserna i punkt 1 fysisk person har hemvist i båda avtalsslutande staterna, bestäms hans hemvist på följande sätt:
a) han anses ha hemvist endast i den stat där han har en bostad som stadigvarande står till hans förfogande. Om han har en sådan bostad i båda staterna, anses han ha hemvist endast i den stat med vilken hans personliga och ekonomiska förbindelser är starkast (centrum för levnadsintressena),
b) om det inte kan avgöras i vilken stat han har centrum för sina levnadsintressen eller om han inte i någondera staten har en bostad som stadigvarande står till hans förfogande, anses han ha hemvist endast i den stat där han stadigvarande vistas,
c) om han stadigvarande vistas i båda staterna eller om han inte vistas stadigvarande i någon av dem, anses han ha hemvist endast i den stat där han är medborgare,
d) om han är medborgare i båda staterna eller om han inte är medborgare i någon av dem, ska de behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna avgöra frågan genom ömsesidig överenskommelse.
3. Då på grund av bestämmelserna i punkt 1 annan person än fysisk person har hemvist i båda avtalsslutande staterna, ska de behöriga myndigheterna söka avgöra frågan genom ömsesidig överenskommelse.
Artikel 5
Fast driftställe
1. Vid tillämpningen av detta avtal avser uttrycket "fast driftställe" en stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet, från vilken ett företags verksamhet helt eller delvis bedrivs.
2. Uttrycket "fast driftställe" innefattar särskilt:
a) plats för företagsledning,
b) filial,
c) kontor,
d) fabrik,
e) verkstad, och
f) gruva, olje- eller gaskälla, stenbrott eller annan plats för utvinning av naturtillgångar.
3. Plats för byggnads-, anläggnings-, monterings- eller installationsverksamhet eller verksamhet som består av övervakning i anslutning därtill utgör fast driftställe endast om verksamheten pågår längre tid än tolv månader.
4. Utan hinder av föregående bestämmelser i denna artikel anses uttrycket "fast driftställe" inte innefatta:
a) användningen av anordningar uteslutande för lagring, utställning eller utlämnande av företaget tillhöriga varor,
b) innehavet av ett företaget tillhörigt varulager
uteslutande för lagring, utställning eller utlämnande,
c) innehavet av ett företaget tillhörigt varulager uteslutande för bearbetning eller förädling genom ett annat företags försorg,
d) innehavet av stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet uteslutande för inköp av varor eller inhämtande av upplysningar för företaget,
e) innehavet av stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet uteslutande för att för företaget bedriva annan verksamhet av förberedande eller biträdande art,
f) ett installationsprojekt som ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat bedriver i den andra avtalsslutande staten, om projektet bedrivs i samband med företagets leverans av maskiner eller utrustning,
g) innehavet av stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet uteslutande för att kombinera verksamheter som anges i a) till f) ovan, under förutsättning att hela den verksamhet som bedrivs från den stadigvarande platsen för affärsverksamhet på grund av denna kombination är av förberedande eller biträdande art.
5. Om en person - som inte är en sådan oberoende representant på vilken punkt 6 tillämpas - är verksam för ett företag samt i en avtalsslutande stat har och där regelmässigt använder fullmakt att sluta avtal i företagets namn, anses företaget -
utan hinder av bestämmelserna i punkterna 1 och 2 - ha fast driftställe i denna stat i fråga om varje verksamhet som personen driver för företaget. Detta gäller dock inte, om den verksamhet som personen bedriver är begränsad till sådan som anges i punkt 4 och som, om den bedrevs från en stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet, inte skulle göra denna stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet till fast driftställe enligt bestämmelserna i nämnda punkt.
6. Företag anses inte ha fast driftställe i en avtalsslutande stat endast på den grund att företaget bedriver affärsverksamhet i denna stat genom förmedling av mäklare, kommissionär eller annan oberoende representant, under förutsättning att sådan person därvid bedriver sin sedvanliga affärsverksamhet.
7. Den omständigheten att ett bolag med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat kontrollerar eller kontrolleras av ett bolag med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten eller ett bolag som bedriver affärsverksamhet i denna andra stat
(antingen från fast driftställe eller på annat sätt) medför inte i sig att någotdera bolaget utgör fast driftställe för det andra.
Artikel 6
Inkomst av fast egendom
1. Inkomst, som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar av fast egendom (däri inbegripet inkomst av lantbruk eller skogsbruk) belägen i den andra avtalsslutande staten, får beskattas i denna andra stat.
2. Uttrycket "fast egendom" har den betydelse som uttrycket har enligt lagstiftningen i den avtalsslutande stat där egendomen är belägen. Uttrycket inbegriper dock alltid tillbehör till fast egendom, levande och döda inventarier i lantbruk och skogsbruk, rättigheter på vilka bestämmelserna i privaträtten om fast egendom tillämpas, byggnader, nyttjanderätt till fast egendom samt rätt till föränderliga eller fasta ersättningar för nyttjandet av eller rätten att nyttja mineralförekomst, källa eller annan naturtillgång. Skepp, båtar och luftfartyg anses inte vara fast egendom.
3. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 tilllämpas på inkomst som förvärvas genom omedelbart brukande, genom uthyrning eller annan användning av fast egendom.
4. Bestämmelserna i punkterna 1 och 3 tillämpas även på inkomst av fast egendom som tillhör företag.
Artikel 7
Inkomst av rörelse
1. Inkomst av rörelse, som företag i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar, beskattas endast i denna stat, såvida inte företaget bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten från där beläget fast driftställe. Om företaget bedriver rörelse på nyss angivet sätt, får företagets inkomst beskattas i den andra staten, men endast så stor del därav som är hänförlig till det fasta driftstället.
2. Om företag i en avtalsslutande stat bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten från där beläget fast driftställe hänförs, om inte bestämmelserna i punkt 3 föranleder annat, i vardera avtalsslutande staten till det fasta driftstället den inkomst som det kan antas att driftstället skulle ha förvärvat, om det varit ett fristående företag, som bedrivit verksamhet av samma eller liknande slag under samma eller liknande villkor och självständigt avslutat affärer med det företag till vilket driftstället hör.
3. Vid bestämmande av fast driftställes inkomst medges avdrag för utgifter som uppkommit för det fasta driftstället, härunder inbegripna utgifter för företagets ledning och allmänna förvaltning, oavsett om utgifterna uppkommit i den stat där det fasta driftställets är beläget eller annorstädes.
4. Inkomst hänförs inte till fast driftställe endast av den anledningen att varor inköps genom det fasta driftställets försorg för företaget.
5. Vid tillämpningen av föregående punkter bestäms inkomst som är hänförlig till det fasta driftstället genom samma förfarande år från år, såvida inte goda och tillräckliga skäl föranleder annat.
6. Ingår i inkomst av rörelse inkomst som behandlas särskilt i andra artiklar av detta avtal, berörs bestämmelserna i dessa artiklar inte av reglerna i denna artikel.
Artikel 8
Sjöfart och luftfart
1. Inkomst som förvärvas av företag i en avtalsslutande stat genom användningen av skepp eller luftfartyg i internationell trafik beskattas endast i denna stat.
2. Vid tillämpningen av denna artikel inbegriper uttrycket
"användningen av skepp eller luftfartyg" av ett företag:
1) charter eller uthyrning av skepp eller luftfartyg på s.k.
bare boat basis, och
2) uthyrning av containrar och därtill hörande utrustning,
under förutsättning att sådan charter eller uthyrning är av underordnad betydelse, i förhållande till företagets användning av skepp eller luftfartyg i internationell trafik.
3. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 tillämpas på inkomst som förvärvas av luftfartskonsortiet Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) men endast i fråga om den del av inkomsten som motsvarar den andel av konsortiet som innehas av SAS Sverige AB, den svenske delägaren i SAS.
4. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 tillämpas även på inkomster som förvärvas genom deltagande i en pool, ett gemensamt företag eller en internationell driftsorganisation.
Artikel 9
Företag med intressegemenskap
1. I fall då
a) ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat direkt eller indirekt deltar i ledningen eller kontrollen av ett företag i den andra avtalsslutande staten eller äger del i detta företags kapital, eller
b) samma personer direkt eller indirekt deltar i ledningen eller kontrollen av såväl ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat som ett företag i den andra avtalsslutande staten eller äger del i båda dessa företags kapital, iakttas följande. Om mellan företagen i fråga om handelsförbindelser eller finansiella förbindelser avtalas eller föreskrivs villkor, som avviker från dem som skulle ha avtalats mellan av varandra oberoende företag, får all inkomst, som utan sådana villkor skulle ha tillkommit det ena företaget men som på grund av villkoren i fråga inte tillkommit detta företag, inräknas i detta företags inkomst och beskattas i överensstämmelse därmed.
2. I fall då en avtalsslutande stat i inkomsten för ett företag i denna stat inräknar - och i överensstämmelse därmed beskattar -
inkomst, för vilken ett företag i den andra avtalsslutande staten beskattats i denna andra stat, samt den sålunda inräknade inkomsten är sådan som skulle ha tillkommit företag i den förstnämnda staten om de villkor som avtalats mellan företagen hade varit sådana som skulle ha avtalats mellan av varandra oberoende företag, ska denna andra stat genomföra vederbörlig justering av det skattebelopp som påförts inkomsten där. Vid sådan justering iakttas övriga bestämmelser i detta avtal och de behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna överlägger vid behov med varandra.
Artikel 10
Utdelning
1. Utdelning från bolag med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat till person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten får
beskattas i denna andra stat.   2. Utdelningen får emellertid
beskattas även i den avtalsslutande stat där bolaget som betalar utdelningen har hemvist, enligt lagstiftningen i denna stat, men om den som har rätt till utdelningen har hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten får skatten inte överstiga 15 procent av utdelningens bruttobelopp. Sådan utdelning ska emellertid vara undantagen från beskattning i den stat där bolaget som betalar utdelningen har hemvist, om den som har rätt till utdelningen är ett bolag (med undantag för handelsbolag) som innehar minst 10 procent av det utdelande bolagets röstetal. Bestämmelserna i denna punkt berör inte bolagets beskattning för den vinst av vilken utdelningen betalas.
3. Med uttrycket "utdelning" förstås i denna artikel inkomst av aktier eller andra rättigheter, som inte är fordringar, med rätt till andel i vinst, samt inkomst av andra andelar i bolag som enligt lagstiftningen i den stat där det utdelande bolaget har hemvist vid beskattningen behandlas på samma sätt som inkomst av aktier.
4. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 och 2 tillämpas inte, om den som har rätt till utdelningen har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat och bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten, där bolaget som betalar utdelningen har hemvist, från där beläget fast driftställe, samt den andel på grund av vilken utdelningen betalas äger verkligt samband med det fasta driftstället. I sådant fall tillämpas artikel 7.
5. Om bolag med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar inkomst från den andra avtalsslutande staten, får denna andra stat inte beskatta utdelning som bolaget betalar, utom i den mån utdelningen betalas till person med hemvist i denna andra stat eller i den mån den andel på grund av vilken utdelningen betalas äger verkligt samband med fast driftställe i denna andra stat, och ej heller på bolagets inte utdelade vinst ta ut en skatt som utgår på bolagets icke utdelade vinst, även om utdelningen eller den icke utdelade vinsten helt eller delvis utgörs av inkomst som uppkommit i denna andra stat.
Artikel 11
Ränta
1. Ränta, som härrör från en avtalsslutande stat och som betalas till person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten, beskattas endast i denna andra stat om personen i fråga har rätt till räntan.
2. Med uttrycket "ränta" förstås i denna artikel inkomst av varje slags fordran, antingen den säkerställts genom inteckning i fast egendom eller inte och antingen den medför rätt till andel i gäldenärens vinst eller inte. Uttrycket avser särskilt inkomst av värdepapper som utfärdats av staten och inkomst av obligationer eller debentures, däri inbegripet agiobelopp och vinster som hänför sig till sådana värdepapper, obligationer eller debentures. Straffavgift på grund av sen betalning anses inte som ränta vid tillämpningen av denna artikel.
3. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 tillämpas inte om den som har rätt till räntan har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat och bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten från vilken räntan härrör, från där beläget fast driftställe, samt den fordran för vilken räntan betalas äger verkligt samband med det fasta driftstället. I sådant fall tillämpas bestämmelserna i artikel 7.
4. Då på grund av särskilda förbindelser mellan utbetalaren och den som har rätt till räntan eller mellan dem båda och annan person räntebeloppet, med hänsyn till den fordran för vilken räntan betalas, överstiger det belopp som skulle ha avtalats mellan utbetalaren och den som har rätt till räntan om sådana förbindelser inte förelegat, tillämpas bestämmelserna i denna artikel endast på sistnämnda belopp. I sådant fall beskattas överskjutande belopp enligt lagstiftningen i vardera avtalsslutande staten med iakttagande av övriga bestämmelser i detta avtal.
Artikel 12
Royalty
1. Royalty, som härrör från en avtalsslutande stat och som betalas till person som har hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten, beskattas endast i denna andra stat om personen i fråga har rätt till royaltyn.
2. Med uttrycket "royalty" förstås i denna artikel varje slags betalning som tas emot såsom ersättning för nyttjandet av eller för rätten att nyttja upphovsrätt till litterärt, konstnärligt eller vetenskapligt verk, häri inbegripet biograffilm och filmer eller band för radio- eller televisionsutsändning, patent, varumärke, mönster eller modell, ritning, hemligt recept eller hemlig tillverkningsmetod, eller för upplysning om erfarenhetsrön av industriell, kommersiell eller vetenskaplig natur.  3. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 tillämpas inte om den som har rätt till royaltyn har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat och bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten, från vilken royaltyn härrör, från där beläget fast driftställe, samt den rättighet eller egendom i fråga om vilken royaltyn betalas äger verkligt samband med det fasta driftstället. I sådant fall tillämpas artikel 7.
4. Då på grund av särskilda förbindelser mellan utbetalaren och den som har rätt till royaltyn eller mellan dem båda och annan person royaltybeloppet, med hänsyn till det nyttjande, den rättighet eller den upplysning för vilken royaltyn betalas, överstiger det belopp som skulle ha avtalats mellan utbetalaren och den som har rätt till royalty om sådana förbindelser inte förelegat, tillämpas bestämmelserna i denna artikel endast på sistnämnda belopp. I sådant fall beskattas överskjutande belopp enligt lagstiftningen i vardera avtalsslutande staten med iakttagande av övriga bestämmelser i detta avtal.
Artikel 13
Realisationsvinst
1. Vinst, som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar på grund av överlåtelse av sådan fast egendom som avses i artikel 6 och som är belägen i den andra avtalsslutande staten, eller på grund av avyttring av andelar i ett bolag vars tillgångar huvudsakligen består av sådan egendom, får beskattas i denna andra stat.
2. Vinst på grund av överlåtelse av lös egendom som utgör del av rörelsetillgångarna i fast driftställe, vilket ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat har i den andra avtalsslutande staten, får beskattas i denna andra stat. Detsamma gäller vinst på grund av överlåtelse av sådant fast driftställe (för sig eller tillsammans med hela företaget).
3. Vinst som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar på grund av överlåtelse av skepp eller luftfartyg som används i internationell trafik eller lös egendom som är hänförlig till användningen av sådana skepp eller luftfartyg, beskattas endast i denna stat.  Bestämmelserna i denna punkt tillämpas i fråga om vinst som förvärvas av luftfartskonsortiet Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS), men endast i fråga om den del av vinsten som motsvarar den andel i konsortiet som innehas av SAS Sverige AB, den svenske delägaren i SAS.
4. Vinst på grund av överlåtelse av annan egendom än sådan som avses i punkterna 1, 2 och 3 beskattas endast i den avtalsslutande stat där överlåtaren har hemvist.
5. Vinst, på grund av avyttring av tillgång, som förvärvas av en fysisk person som har haft hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat och fått hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten får - utan hinder av bestämmelserna i punkt 4 - beskattas i den förstnämnda staten om överlåtelsen av tillgången inträffar vid något tillfälle under de tio år som följer närmast efter den tidpunkt då personen upphört att ha hemvist i den förstnämnda staten.
Artikel 14
Inkomst av anställning
1. Om inte bestämmelserna i artiklarna 15, 17 och 18 föranleder annat, beskattas lön och annan liknande ersättning som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat uppbär på grund av anställning, endast i denna stat, såvida inte arbetet utförs i den andra avtalsslutande staten. Om arbetet utförs i denna andra stat, får ersättning som uppbärs för arbetet beskattas där.
2. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i punkt 1 beskattas ersättning, som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat uppbär för arbete i den andra avtalsslutande staten, endast i den förstnämnda staten, om:
a) mottagaren vistas i den andra staten under tidsperiod eller tidsperioder som sammanlagt inte överstiger 183 dagar under en tolvmånadersperiod som börjar eller slutar under beskattningsåret i fråga, och
b) ersättningen betalas av arbetsgivare som inte har hemvist i den andra staten eller på dennes vägnar, samt
c) ersättningen inte belastar fast driftställe som arbetsgivaren har i den andra staten.
3. Utan hinder av föregående bestämmelser i denna artikel får ersättning för arbete som utförs ombord på skepp eller luftfartyg som används i internationell trafik av ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat, beskattas i denna stat. Om en person med hemvist i Sverige uppbär ersättning för arbete utfört ombord på luftfartyg som används i internationell trafik av luftfartskonsortiet Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS), ska sådan ersättning beskattas endast i Sverige.
Artikel 15
Styrelsearvode
Styrelsearvode och annan liknande ersättning, som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat uppbär i egenskap av medlem i styrelse i bolag med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten, får beskattas i denna andra stat.
Artikel 16
Artister och sportutövare
1. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i artiklarna 7 och 14 får inkomst, som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar genom sin personliga verksamhet i den andra avtalsslutande staten i egenskap av artist, såsom teater- eller filmskådespelare, radio- eller televisionsartist eller musiker, eller i egenskap av sportutövare, beskattas i denna andra stat.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an artiste or a sportsman in his capacity as such accrues not to the artiste or sportsman himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 7 and 14, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the artiste or sportsman are exercised.
3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to income derived from activities exercised in a Contracting State by an artiste or a sportsman if the visit to that State is wholly supported by public funds of the other Contracting State. In such case, the income shall be taxable only in the Contracting State in which the artiste or sportsman is a resident.
Article 17
Pensions, annuities and similar payments
1. Pensions and other similar remuneration, disbursements under the Social Security legislation and annuities arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in the first-mentioned Contracting State.
2. The term "annuity" means a stated sum payable periodically at stated times during life or during a specified or ascertainable period of time under an obligation to make the payments in return for adequate and full consideration in money or money's worth.
Article 18
Government service
1.(a) Salaries, wages and other similar remuneration, other than a pension, paid by a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or authority shall be taxable only in that State.
(b) However, such salaries, wages and other similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the services are rendered in that State and the individual is a resident of that State who:
(i) is a national of that State; or
(ii) did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
2. The provisions of Articles 14, 15 and 16 shall apply to remuneration in respect of services rendered in connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority thereof.
Article 19
Students
Payments which a student or business apprentice who is or was immediately before visiting a Contracting State a resident of the other Contracting State and who is present in the first-
mentioned State solely for the purpose of his education or training receives for the purpose of his maintenance, education or training shall not be taxed in that State, provided that such payments arise from sources outside that State.
Article 20
Other income
1. Items of income of a resident of a Contracting State, wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this Convention shall be taxable only in that State.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income, other than income from immovable property as defined in paragraph 2 of Article 6, if the recipient of such income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein and the right or property in respect of which the income is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment. In such case the provisions of Article 7 shall apply.
Article 21
Capital
1. Capital represented by immovable property referred to in Article 6, owned by a resident of a Contracting State and situated in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Capital represented by movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
3. Capital represented by ships and aircraft operated in international traffic by an enterprise of a Contracting State and by movable property pertaining to the operation of such ships and aircraft, shall be taxable only in that State.
With respect to capital owned by the air transport consortium Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS), the provisions of this paragraph shall apply only to such part of the capital as corresponds to the participation held in that consortium by SAS Sverige AB, the Swedish partner of SAS.
4. All other elements of capital of a resident of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State.
5. If, pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Article, the right to tax capital held by an individual who is resident of a Contracting State, is vested only in that State, such capital may be taxed in the other Contracting State, where the net capital is not subject to a general tax on net capital according to the laws of the first-mentioned State.
Article 22
Elimination of double taxation
1. In the case of Mauritius, double taxation shall be eliminated as follows:
(a) Where a resident of Mauritius derives income from Sweden the amount of tax on that income payable in Sweden in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement may be credited against the Mauritius tax imposed on that resident.
(b) Where a company which is a resident of Sweden pays a dividend to a resident of Mauritius who controls, directly or indirectly, at least
5 per cent of the capital of the company paying the dividend, the credit shall take into account (in addition to any Swedish tax for which credit may be allowed under the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph) the Swedish tax payable by the first-mentioned company in respect of the profits out of which such dividend is paid.
Provided that any credit allowed under subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not exceed the Mauritius tax (as computed before allowing any such credit), which is appropriate to the profits or income derived from sources within Sweden.
2. In the case of Sweden, double taxation shall be avoided as follows:
(a) Where a resident of Sweden derives income which under the laws of Mauritius and in accordance with the provisions of this Convention may be taxed in Mauritius, Sweden shall allow -
subject to the provisions of the laws of Sweden concerning credit for foreign tax (as it may be amended from time to time without changing the general principle hereof) - as a deduction from the tax on such income, an amount equal to the Mauritius tax paid in respect of such income.
(b) Where a resident of Sweden derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, shall be taxable only in Mauritius, Sweden may, when determining the graduated rate of Swedish tax, take into account the income which shall be taxable only in Mauritius.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, dividends paid by a company which is a resident of Mauritius to a company which is a resident of Sweden shall be exempt from Swedish tax according to the provisions of Swedish law governing the exemption of tax on dividends paid to Swedish companies by companies abroad.
(d) Where a resident of Sweden owns capital which, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, may be taxed in Mauritius, Sweden shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the capital of that resident an amount equal to the capital tax paid in Mauritius. Such deduction shall not, however, exceed that part of the Swedish capital tax, as computed before the deduction is given, which is attributable to the capital which may be taxed in Mauritius.
2. I fall då inkomst genom personlig verksamhet som artist eller sportutövare bedriver i denna egenskap inte tillfaller artisten eller sportutövaren själv utan annan person, får denna inkomst, utan hinder av bestämmelserna i artiklarna 7 och 14, beskattas i den avtalsslutande stat där artisten eller sportutövaren bedriver verksamheten.
3. Bestämmelserna i punkterna 1 och 2 tillämpas inte på inkomst, som en artist eller sportutövare förvärvar genom sin personliga verksamhet i en avtalsslutande stat, om artistens eller sportutövarens besök i denna stat i sin helhet finansieras av allmänna medel från den andra avtalsslutande staten. I sådant fall beskattas inkomsten endast i den avtalsslutande stat där artisten eller sportutövaren har hemvist.
Artikel 17
Pensioner, livräntor och liknande betalningar
1. Pension och annan liknande ersättning, utbetalning enligt socialförsäkringslagstiftningen och livränta som härrör från en avtalsslutande stat och betalas till en person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten, får beskattas i den förstnämnda avtalsslutande staten.
2. Med uttrycket "livränta" förstås ett fastställt belopp, som utbetalas periodiskt på fastställda tider under en persons livstid eller under angiven eller fastställbar tidsperiod och som utgår på grund av förpliktelse att verkställa dessa utbetalningar som ersättning för däremot fullt svarande vederlag i pengar eller pengars värde.
Artikel 18
Offentlig tjänst
1. a) Lön och annan liknande ersättning, med undantag för pension, som betalas av en avtalsslutande stat, en av dess politiska underavdelningar eller lokala myndigheter till fysisk person på grund av arbete som utförts i denna stats, underavdelnings eller myndighets tjänst, beskattas endast i denna stat.
b) Sådan lön och annan liknande ersättning beskattas emellertid endast i den andra avtalsslutande staten om arbetet utförs i denna andra stat och personen i fråga har hemvist i denna stat och:
1) är medborgare i denna stat, eller
2) inte fick hemvist i denna stat uteslutande för att utföra arbetet.
2. Bestämmelserna i artiklarna 14, 15 och 16 tillämpas på ersättning som betalas på grund av arbete som utförts i samband med rörelse som bedrivs av en avtalsslutande stat, en av dess politiska underavdelningar eller lokala myndigheter.
Artikel 19
Studerande
Studerande eller praktikant som har eller omedelbart före vistelsen i en avtalsslutande stat hade hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten och som vistas i den förstnämnda staten uteslutande för sin undervisning eller praktik, beskattas inte i denna stat för belopp som han erhåller för sitt uppehälle, sin undervisning eller praktik, om beloppen härrör från källa utanför denna stat.
Artikel 20
Annan inkomst
1. Inkomst som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar och som inte behandlas i föregående artiklar av detta avtal beskattas endast i denna stat, oavsett varifrån inkomsten härrör.
2. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 tillämpas inte på inkomst, med undantag av inkomst av fast egendom som avses i artikel 6 punkt 2, om mottagaren av inkomsten har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat och bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten från där beläget fast driftställe, samt den rättighet eller egendom i fråga om vilken inkomsten betalas äger verkligt samband med det fasta driftstället. I sådant fall tillämpas bestämmelserna i artikel 7.
Artikel 21
Förmögenhet
1. Förmögenhet bestående av sådan fast egendom som avses i artikel 6, vilken person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat innehar och vilken är belägen i den andra avtalsslutande staten
får beskattas i denna andra stat.       2. Förmögenhet
bestående av lös egendom, som utgör del av rörelsetillgångarna i fast driftställe, vilket ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat har i den andra avtalsslutande staten, får beskattas i denna andra stat.
3. Förmögenhet bestående av skepp och luftfartyg som används i internationell trafik av ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat och av lös egendom som är hänförlig till användningen av sådana skepp och luftfartyg, beskattas endast i denna stat.
Bestämmelserna i denna punkt tillämpas i fråga om förmögenhet som ägs av luftfartskonsortiet Scandinavian Airlines System
(SAS), men endast i fråga om den del av förmögenheten som motsvarar den andel i konsortiet som innehas av SAS Sverige AB, den svenske delägaren i SAS.
4. Alla andra slag av förmögenhet som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat innehar, beskattas endast i denna stat.
5. Om, i enlighet med punkt 4 i denna artikel, rätten att beskatta förmögenhet som innehas av person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat, tillfaller endast denna stat, får denna förmögenhet beskattas i den andra avtalsslutande staten, om förmögenheten inte är föremål för en allmän förmögenhetsskatt enligt lagstiftningen i den förstnämnda staten.
Artikel 22
Undanröjande av dubbelbeskattning
1. Beträffande Mauritius ska dubbelbeskattning undvikas på följande sätt:
a) Om en person med hemvist i Mauritius förvärvar inkomst från Sverige, får den skatt på inkomsten som i enlighet med detta avtal tagits ut i Sverige, avräknas mot skatt som personen betalat i Mauritius.
b) Om ett bolag med hemvist i Sverige betalar utdelning till en person med hemvist i Mauritius som kontrollerar, direkt eller indirekt, minst 5 procent av det utdelande bolagets kapital, ska vid avräkningen beaktas (förutom sådan svensk skatt för vilken avräkning ska ges enligt punkt a) ovan) den svenska skatt som bolaget betalat på den vinst av vilken utdelningen betalas.
Avräkningsbeloppet enligt punkterna a) och b) ovan ska emellertid inte överstiga den mauritiska skatt som
(beräknad utan sådan avräkning) belöper på den inkomst som härrör från Sverige.
2. Beträffande Sverige ska dubbelbeskattning undvikas på följande sätt:
a) Om person med hemvist i Sverige förvärvar inkomst som enligt mauritisk lagstiftning och i enlighet med bestämmelserna i detta avtal får beskattas i Mauritius, ska Sverige - med beaktande av bestämmelserna i svensk lagstiftning beträffande avräkning av utländsk skatt (även i den lydelse de framledes kan få genom att ändras utan att den allmänna princip som anges här ändras) - från den svenska skatten på inkomsten avräkna ett belopp motsvarande den mauritiska skatt som erlagts på inkomsten.
b) Om en person med hemvist i Sverige erhåller inkomst som i enlighet med detta avtal beskattas endast i Mauritius, får Sverige, vid fastställande av skattesatsen för svensk progressiv skatt beakta den inkomst som ska beskattas endast i Mauritius.
c) Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i punkt a) ovan är utdelning från bolag med hemvist i Mauritius till bolag med hemvist i Sverige undantagen från svensk skatt enligt bestämmelserna i svensk lag om skattebefrielse för utdelning som betalas till svenska bolag från bolag i utlandet.
d) Om en person med hemvist i Sverige innehar förmögenhet, som enligt bestämmelserna i detta avtal får beskattas i Mauritius, ska Sverige från skatten på denna persons förmögenhet avräkna ett belopp motsvarande den förmögenhetsskatt som erlagts i Mauritius. Avräkningsbeloppet ska emellertid inte överstiga den del av den svenska förmögenhetsskatten, beräknad utan sådan avräkning, som belöper på den förmögenhet som får beskattas i Mauritius.
Artikel 23
Förbud mot diskriminering
1. Medborgare i en avtalsslutande stat ska inte i den andra avtalsslutande staten bli föremål för beskattning eller därmed sammanhängande krav som är av annat slag eller mer tyngande än den beskattning och därmed sammanhängande krav som medborgare i denna andra stat under samma förhållanden är eller kan bli underkastad. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i artikel 1 tillämpas denna bestämmelse även på person som inte har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat eller i båda avtalsslutande staterna.
2. Beskattningen av fast driftställe, som företag i en avtalsslutande stat har i den andra avtalsslutande staten, ska i denna andra stat inte vara mindre fördelaktig än beskattningen av företag i denna andra stat, som bedriver verksamhet av samma slag. Denna bestämmelse anses inte medföra skyldighet för en avtalsslutande stat att medge personer med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten sådant personligt avdrag vid beskattningen, sådan skattebefrielse eller skattenedsättning på grund av civilstånd eller försörjningsplikt som medges personer med hemvist i den egna staten.
3. Utom i de fall då bestämmelserna i artikel 9 punkt 1, artikel 11 punkt 4 eller artikel 12 punkt 4 tillämpas, är ränta, royalty och annan betalning från företag i en avtalsslutande stat till person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten, avdragsgilla vid bestämmandet av den beskattningsbara inkomsten för sådant företag på samma villkor som betalning till person med hemvist i den förstnämnda staten.
På samma sätt är skuld som företag i en avtalsslutande stat har till person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten avdragsgill vid bestämmande av sådant företags beskattningsbara förmögenhet på samma villkor som skuld till person med hemvist i den förstnämnda staten.
4. Företag i en avtalsslutande stat, vars kapital helt eller delvis ägs eller kontrolleras, direkt eller indirekt av en eller flera personer med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten, ska inte i den förstnämnda staten bli föremål för beskattning eller därmed sammanhängande krav som är av annat slag eller mer tyngande än den beskattning och därmed sammanhängande krav som annat liknande företag i den förstnämnda staten är eller kan bli underkastat.
5. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i artikel 2 tillämpas bestämmelserna i denna artikel på skatter av varje slag och beskaffenhet.
Artikel 24
Förfarande vid ömsesidig överenskommelse
1. Om en person anser att en avtalsslutande stat eller båda avtalsslutande staterna vidtagit åtgärder som för honom medför eller kommer att medföra beskattning som strider mot bestämmelserna i detta avtal, kan han, utan att det påverkar hans rätt att använda sig av de rättsmedel som finns i dessa staters interna rättsordningar, lägga fram saken för den behöriga myndigheten i den avtalsslutande stat där han har hemvist eller, om fråga är om tilllämpning av artikel 23 punkt 1, i den avtalsslutande stat där han är medborgare. Saken ska läggas fram inom tre år från den tidpunkt då personen i fråga fick vetskap om den åtgärd som givit upphov till beskattning som strider mot bestämmelserna i avtalet.
2. Om den behöriga myndigheten finner invändningen grundad men inte själv kan få till stånd en tillfredsställande lösning, ska myndigheten söka lösa frågan genom ömsesidig överenskommelse med den behöriga myndigheten i den andra avtalsslutande staten i syfte att undvika beskattning som strider mot avtalet.
Överenskommelse som träffats genomförs utan hinder av tidsgränser i de avtalsslutande staternas interna lagstiftning.
3. De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna ska genom ömsesidig överenskommelse söka avgöra svårigheter eller tvivelsmål som uppkommer i fråga om tolkningen eller tillämpningen av avtalet. De kan även överlägga i syfte att undanröja dubbelbeskattning i fall som inte omfattas av detta avtal.
4. De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna kan träda i direkt förbindelse med varandra i syfte att träffa överenskommelse i de fall som angivits i föregående punkter.
Artikel 25
Utbyte av upplysningar
1. De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna ska utbyta sådana upplysningar som kan antas vara relevanta vid tillämpningen av bestämmelserna i detta avtal eller för administration eller verkställighet av intern lagstiftning i fråga om skatter av varje slag och beskaffenhet som tas ut för de avtalsslutande staternas eller för deras politiska underavdelningar eller lokala myndigheter, om beskattningen enligt denna lagstiftning inte strider mot avtalet. Utbytet av upplysningar begränsas inte av artiklarna 1 och 2.
2. Upplysningar som en avtalsslutande stat tagit emot enligt punkt 1 ska behandlas som hemliga på samma sätt som upplysningar som erhållits enligt den interna lagstiftningen i denna stat och får yppas endast för personer eller myndigheter
(däri inbegripet domstolar och förvaltningsorgan) som fastställer, uppbär eller driver in de skatter som åsyftas i punkt 1 eller handlägger åtal eller överklagande i fråga om dessa skatter eller som utövar tillsyn över nämnda verksamheter. Dessa personer eller myndigheter får använda upplysningar bara för sådana ändamål. De får yppa upplysningarna vid offentlig rättegång eller i domstolsavgöranden.
3. Bestämmelserna i punkterna 1 och 2 medför inte skyldighet för en avtalsslutande stat att:
a) vidta förvaltningsåtgärder som avviker från lagstiftning och administrativ praxis i denna avtalsslutande stat eller i den andra avtalsslutande staten,
b) lämna upplysningar som inte är tillgängliga enligt lagstiftning eller sedvanlig administrativ praxis i denna avtalsslutande stat eller i den andra avtalsslutande staten,
c) lämna upplysningar som skulle röja affärshemlighet, industri-, handels- eller yrkeshemlighet eller i näringsverksamhet nyttjat förfaringssätt eller upplysningar, vilkas överlämnande skulle strida mot allmänna hänsyn (ordre public).
4. Då en avtalsslutande stat begär upplysningar enligt denna artikel ska den andra avtalsslutande staten använda de medel som denna stat förfogar över för att inhämta de begärda upplysningarna, även om denna andra stat inte har behov av upplysningarna för sina egna beskattningsändamål. Förpliktelsen i föregående mening begränsas av bestämmelserna i punkt 3, men detta medför inte en rätt för en avtalsslutande stat att vägra lämna upplysningar uteslutande därför att denna stat inte har något eget intresse av sådana upplysningar.
5. Bestämmelserna i punkt 3 medför inte rätt för en avtalsslutande stat att vägra att lämna upplysningar uteslutande därför att upplysningarna innehas av en bank, annan finansiell institution, ombud, representant eller förvaltare eller därför att upplysningarna gäller äganderätt i en person.
Artikel 26
Begränsning av förmåner
Utan hinder av övriga bestämmelser i detta avtal, om
a) bolag med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar sina inkomster huvudsakligen från andra stater
1) från aktiviteter sådana som finansiella tjänster eller sjöfart, eller
2) genom att vara huvudkontor, coordination centre eller liknande enhet som tillhandahåller administrativa eller andra tjänster till en grupp av bolag som bedriver rörelse huvudsakligen i andra stater, och
b) sådan inkomst beskattas väsentligt lägre enligt lagstiftningen i denna stat än inkomster från liknande verksamhet som bedrivs inom denna stat eller från att vara huvudkontor, coordination centre eller liknande enhet som tillhandahåller administrativa eller andra tjänster till en
grupp av bolag som bedriver rörelse i denna stat,       ska de
bestämmelser i detta avtal som medger undantag från eller nedsättning av skatt inte tillämpas på inkomst som sådant bolag förvärvar och inte heller på utdelning som betalas av sådant bolag.
Artikel 27
Diplomatiska företrädare och konsulära tjänstemän
Bestämmelserna i detta avtal berör inte de privilegier vid beskattningen som enligt folkrättens allmänna regler eller bestämmelser i särskilda överenskommelser tillkommer medlemmar av diplomatisk beskickning och konsulat.
Artikel 28
Ikraftträdande
1. De avtalsslutande staterna ska skriftligen underrätta varandra när de åtgärder vidtagits som enligt respektive stats lagstiftning krävs för att detta avtal ska träda i kraft.
2. Avtalet träder i kraft den trettionde dagen efter det att den sista av dessa underrättelser tagits emot och ska därefter tillämpas
1) i fråga om källskatter, för belopp som betalas eller tillgodoförs den 1 januari det år som följer närmast efter den dag då avtalet träder i kraft eller senare,
2) i fråga om andra skatter på inkomst, och skatter på förmögenhet, på skatt som tas ut för beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari det år som följer närmast efter den dag då
avtalet träder i kraft eller senare.    3. Avtalet mellan
Sveriges regering och Mauritius regering för att undvika dubbelbeskattning och förhindra skatteflykt beträffande skatter på inkomst och realisationsvinst som undertecknades den 23 april 1992 (1992 års avtal) ska upphöra genom ikraftträdandet av detta avtal. Bestämmelserna i 1992 års avtal ska emellertid fortsätta att tillämpas till dess bestämmelserna i detta avtal, i enlighet med bestämmelserna i punkt 2 i denna artikel, börjar tillämpas.
Artikel 29
Upphörande
Detta avtal förblir i kraft till dess att det sägs upp av en avtalsslutande stat. Vardera avtalsslutande staten kan på diplomatisk väg skriftligen säga upp avtalet genom underrättelse härom minst sex månader före utgången av något kalenderår. I händelse av sådan uppsägning upphör avtalet att gälla
1) i fråga om källskatt, för belopp som betalas eller tillgodoförs den
1 januari det år som följer närmast efter utgången av sexmånadersperioden eller senare,
2) i fråga om andra skatter på inkomst, och skatter på förmögenhet, på skatt som tas ut för det beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari det år som följer närmast efter utgången av sexmånadersperioden eller senare.
Till bekräftelse härav har undertecknade, därtill vederbörligen bemyndigade, undertecknat detta avtal.
Som skedde i Paris den 1 december 2011, i två exemplar på engelska språket.
För Konungariket Sveriges regering
Gunnar Lund
För Republiken Mauritius regering
Jacques Chasteau de Balyon
Protokoll
Vid undertecknandet av avtalet mellan Konungariket Sverige och Republiken Mauritius för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning och förhindrande av skatteflykt beträffande skatter på inkomst och på förmögenhet, har de avtalsslutande staterna kommit överens om följande bestämmelser, som ska utgöra en integrerande del av avtalet: I fråga om artikel 26 är det överenskommet a) att bestämmelserna i nämnda artikel gäller för inkomst hos, och utdelning från, ett bolag som
1) är berättigat till förmånlig behandling vad gäller avräkning av utländsk skatt enligt bestämmelserna i punkt 8(3) i Mauritius Income Tax (Foreign Tax Credit) Regulations 1996, eller
2) avses i sektion 73A i Mauritius Income Tax Act 1995, eller
3) omfattas av någon lag som är i huvudsak likartad de lagar som nämns i 1) eller 2) ovan och som införts efter dagen för undertecknandet av detta avtal, samt b) att uttrycket
"finansiella tjänster" innefattar bank-, finansierings- och försäkringsverksamhet, förvaltning av tillgångar, förvaringstjänster, distribution av finansiella produkter, mäkleri, förvaltning av pensioner och pensionsförmåner samt likviditetsförvaltning.
Till bekräftelse härav har undertecknade, därtill vederbörligen bemyndigade, undertecknat detta protokoll.
Som skedde i Paris den 1 december 2011, i två exemplar på engelska språket.
För Konungariket Sveriges regering
Gunnar Lund
För Republiken Mauritius regering
Jacques Chasteau de Balyon
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.