Title: Lag (1994:1219) om den europeiska konventionen angående skydd för de mänskliga rättigheterna och de grundläggande friheterna
SFS Number: Svensk författningssamling 1994:1219
URL: https://www.riksdagen.se/sv/dokument-och-lagar/dokument/svensk-forfattningssamling/lag-19941219-om-den-europeiska-konventionen_sfs-1994-1219/
Source Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfst?bet=1994:1219
Amendment Register Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfsr?bet=1994:1219
Ministry/Authority: Justitiedepartementet L6
Issued: 1994-05-05
Metadata: {"Utfärdad": "1994-05-05", "Ändrad": "t.o.m. SFS 2025:93"}

==================================================

Lag (1994:1219) om den europeiska konventionen angående skydd för de mänskliga rättigheterna och de grundläggande friheterna
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.
SFS nr
:     
1994:1219
Departement/myndighet
:   
Justitiedepartementet L6
Utfärdad
:   
1994-05-05
Omtryck
:   
SFS 1998:712
Ändrad
:   
t.o.m. SFS 2025:93
Ändringsregister
:
SFSR (Regeringskansliet)
Källa
:
Fulltext (Regeringskansliet)
Innehåll:
Övergångsbestämmelser
AVDELNING I - RÄTTIGHETER OCH FRIHETER
AVDELNING II - EUROPEISKA DOMSTOLEN FÖR DE MÄNSKLIGA RÄTTIGHETERNA
AVDELNING III - DIVERSE BESTÄMMELSER
1 §
Som lag här i landet ska gälla den europeiska konventionen  den 4 november 1950 angående skydd för de mänskliga  rättigheterna och de grundläggande friheterna
- med de ändringar som gjorts genom ändringsprotokollen nr 11, 
14 och 15 till konventionen, och
- med de tillägg som gjorts genom tilläggsprotokollen nr 1, 4, 
6, 7, 13 och 16 till konventionen.
Konventionens och tilläggsprotokollens engelska och franska  originaltexter, efter de ändringar och tillägg som nämns i  första stycket, finns tillsammans med en svensk översättning  intagna som en bilaga till denna lag.
Lag (2024:1077)
.
Övergångsbestämmelser
1998:712
1. Denna lag träder i kraft den 1 november 1998.
2. I fråga om klagomål som har tagits upp till prövning av den europeiska kommissionen för de mänskliga rättigheterna före ikraftträdandet tillämpas äldre föreskrifter till och med den 31 oktober 1999 enligt artikel 5 i tilläggsprotokoll nr 11.
Bilaga
Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms
The governments signatory hereto, being members of the  Council of Europe,
Considering the Universal Declaration of Human Rights  proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 
10th December 1948;
Considering that this Declaration aims at securing the  universal and effective recognition and observance of the  Rights therein declared;
Considering that the aim of the Council of Europe is the  achievement of greater unity between its members and that one  of the methods by which that aim is to be pursued is the  maintenance and further realisation of human rights and  fundamental freedoms;
Reaffirming their profound belief in those fundamental  freedoms which are the foundation of justice and peace in the  world and are best maintained on the one hand by an effective  political democracy and on the other by a common  understanding and observance of the human rights upon which  they depend;
Being resolved, as the governments of European countries  which are like-minded and have a common heritage of political  traditions, ideals, freedom and the rule of law, to take the  first steps for the collective enforcement of certain of the  rights stated in the Universal Declaration,
Affirming that the High Contracting Parties, in accordance  with the principle of subsidiarity, have the primary  responsibility to secure the rights and freedoms defined in  this Convention and the Protocols thereto, and that in doing  so they enjoy a margin of appreciation, subject to the  supervisory jurisdiction of the European Court of Human  Rights established by this Convention,
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1 - Obligation to respect human rights
The High Contracting Parties shall secure to everyone within their jurisdiction the rights and freedoms defined in Section I of this Convention.
SECTION I - RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS
Article 2 - Right to life
1. Everyone's right to life shall be protected by law. No one shall be deprived of his life intentionally save in the execution of a sentence of a court following his conviction of a crime for which this penalty is provided by law.
2. Deprivation of life shall not be regarded as inflicted in contravention of this article when it results from the use of force which is no more than absolutely necessary:
a) in defence of any person from unlawful violence;
b) in order to effect a lawful arrest or to prevent the escape of a person lawfully detained;
c) in action lawfully taken for the purpose of quelling a riot or insurrection.
Article 3 - Prohibition of
torture
No one shall be subjected to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
Article 4 - Prohibition of slavery and forced labour
1. No one shall be held in slavery or servitude.
2. No one shall be required to perform forced or compulsory labour.
3. For the purpose of this article the term "forced or compulsory labour" shall not include:
a) any work required to be done in the ordinary course of detention imposed according to the provisions of Article 5 of this Convention or during conditional release from such detention;
b) any service of a military character or, in case of conscientious objectors in countries where they are recognised, service exacted instead of compulsory military service;
c) any service exacted in case of an emergency or calamity threatening the life or well-being of the community;
d) any work or service which forms part of normal civic obligations.
Article 5 - Right to liberty and security
1. Everyone has the right to liberty and security of person. No one shall be deprived of his liberty save in the following cases and in accordance with a procedure prescribed by law:
a) the lawful detention of a person after conviction by a competent court;
b) the lawful arrest or detention of a person for non-
compliance with the lawful order of a court or in order to secure the fulfilment of any obligation prescribed by law;
c) the lawful arrest or detention of a person effected for the purpose of bringing him before the competent legal authority on reasonable suspicion of having committed an offence or when it is reasonably considered necessary to prevent his committing an offence or fleeing after having done so;
d) the detention of a minor by lawful order for the purpose of educational supervision or his lawful detention for the purpose of bringing him before the competent legal authority;
e) the lawful detention of persons for the prevention of the spreading of infectious diseases, of persons of unsound mind, alcoholics or drug addicts or vagrants;
f) the lawful arrest or detention of a person to prevent his effecting an unauthorised entry into the country or of a person against whom action is being taken with a view to deportation or extradition.
2. Everyone who is arrested shall be informed promptly, in a language which he understands, of the reasons for his arrest and of any charge against him.
3. Everyone arrested or detained in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1.c of this article shall be brought promptly before a judge or other officer authorised by law to exercise judicial power and shall be entitled to trial within a reasonable time or to release pending trial. Release may be conditioned by guarantees to appear for trial.
4. Everyone who is deprived of his liberty by arrest or detention shall be entitled to take proceedings by which the lawfulness of his detention shall be decided speedily by a court and his release ordered if the detention is not lawful.
5. Everyone who has been the victim of arrest or detention in contravention of the provisions of this article shall have an enforceable right to compensation.
Article 6 - Right to a fair trial
1. In the determination of his civil rights and obligations or of any criminal charge against him, everyone is entitled to a fair and public hearing within a reasonable time by an independent and impartial tribunal established by law. Judgment shall be pronounced publicly but the press and public may be excluded from all or part of the trial in the interests of morals, public order or national security in a democratic society, where the interests of juveniles or the protection of the private life of the parties so require, or to the extent strictly necessary in the opinion of the court in special circumstances where publicity would prejudice the interests of justice.
2. Everyone charged with a criminal offence shall be presumed innocent until proved guilty according to law.
3. Everyone charged with a criminal offence has the following minimum rights:
a) to be informed promptly, in a language which he understands and in detail, of the nature and cause of the accusation against him;
b) to have adequate time and facilities for the preparation of his defence;
c) to defend himself in person or through legal assistance of his own choosing or, if he has not sufficient means to pay for legal assistance, to be given it free when the interests of justice so require;
d) to examine or have examined witnesses against him and to obtain the attendance and examination of witnesses on his behalf under the same conditions as witnesses against him;
e) to have the free assistance of an interpreter if he cannot understand or speak the language used in court.
Article 7 - No punishment without law
1. No one shall be held guilty of any criminal offence on account of any act or omission which did not constitute a criminal offence under national or international law at the time when it was committed. Nor shall a heavier penalty be imposed than the one that was applicable at the time the criminal offence was committed.
2. This article shall not prejudice the trial and punishment of any person for any act or omission which, at the time when it was committed, was criminal according to the general principles of law recognised by civilised nations.
Article 8 - Right to respect for private and family life
1. Everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life, his home and his correspondence.
2. There shall be no interference by a public authority with the exercise of this right except such as is in accordance with the law and is necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national security, public safety or the economic well-being of the country, for the prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morals, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.
Article 9 - Freedom of thought, conscience and religion
1. Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes freedom to change his religion or belief and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief, in worship, teaching, practice and observance.
2. Freedom to manifest one's religion or beliefs shall be subject only to such limitations as are prescribed by law and are necessary in a democratic society in the interests of public safety, for the protection of public order, health or morals, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.
Article 10 - Freedom of expression
1. Everyone has the right to freedom of expression. This right shall include freedom to hold opinions and to receive and impart information and ideas without interference by public authority and regardless of frontiers. This article shall not prevent States from requiring the licensing of broadcasting, television or cinema enterprises.
2. The exercise of these freedoms, since it carries with it duties and responsibilities, may be subject to such formalities, conditions, restrictions or penalties as are prescribed by law and are necessary in a democratic society, in the interests of national security, territorial integrity or public safety, for the prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morals, for the protection of the reputation or rights of others, for preventing the disclosure of information received in confidence, or for maintaining the authority and impartiality of the judiciary.
Article 11 - Freedom of assembly and association
1. Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and to freedom of association with others, including the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection of his interests.
2. No restrictions shall be placed on the exercise of these rights other than such as are prescribed by law and are necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national security or public safety, for the prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morals or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others. This article shall not prevent the imposition of lawful restrictions on the exercise of these rights by members of the armed forces, of the police or of the administration of the State.
Article 12 - Right to marry
Men and women of marriageable age have the right to marry and to found a family, according to the national laws governing the exercise of this right.
Article 13 - Right to an effective remedy
Everyone whose rights and freedoms as set forth in this Convention are violated shall have an effective remedy before a national authority notwithstanding that the violation has been committed by persons acting in an official capacity.
Article 14 - Prohibition of discrimination
The enjoyment of the rights and freedoms set forth in this Convention shall be secured without discrimination on any ground such as sex, race, colour, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, association with a national minority, property, birth or other status.
Article 15 - Derogation in time of emergency
1. In time of war or other public emergency threatening the life of the nation any High Contracting Party may take measures derogating from its obligations under this Convention to the extent strictly required by the exigencies of the situation, provided that such measures are not inconsistent with its other obligations under international law.
2. No derogation from Article 2, except in respect of deaths resulting from lawful acts of war, or from Articles 3, 4
(paragraph 1) and 7 shall be made under this provision.
3. Any High Contracting Party availing itself of this right of derogation shall keep the Secretary General of the Council of Europe fully informed of the measures which it has taken and the reasons therefor. It shall also inform the Secretary General of the Council of Europe when such measures have ceased to operate and the provisions of the Convention are again being fully executed.
Article 16 - Restrictions on political activity of aliens
Nothing in Articles 10, 11 and 14 shall be regarded as preventing the High Contracting Parties from imposing restrictions on the political activity of aliens.
Article 17 - Prohibition of abuse of rights
Nothing in this Convention may be interpreted as implying for any State, group or person any right to engage in any activity or perform any act aimed at the destruction of any of the rights and freedoms set forth herein or at their limitation to a greater extent than is provided for in the Convention.
Article 18 - Limitation on use of restrictions on rights
The restrictions permitted under this Convention to the said rights and freedoms shall not be applied for any purpose other than those for which they have been prescribed.
SECTION II - EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS
Article 19 - Establishment of the Court
To ensure the observance of the engagements undertaken by the High Contracting Parties in the Convention and the Protocols thereto, there shall be set up a European Court of Human Rights, hereinafter referred to as "the Court". It shall function on a permanent basis.
Article 20 - Number of judges
The Court shall consist of a number of judges equal to that of the High Contracting Parties.
Article 21 - Criteria for office
1. The judges shall be of high moral character and must  either possess the qualifications required for appointment to  high judicial office or be jurisconsults of recognised  competence.
2. Candidates shall be less than 65 years of age at the date  by which the list of three candidates has been requested by  the Parliamentary Assembly, further to Article 22.
3. The judges shall sit on the Court in their individual  capacity.
4.  During their term of office the judges shall not engage  in any activity which is incompatible with their  independence, impartiality or with the demands of a full-time  office; all questions arising from the application of this  paragraph shall be decided by the Court.
Article 22 - Election of judges
The judges shall be elected by the Parliamentary Assembly with respect to each High Contracting Party by a majority of votes cast from a list of three candidates nominated by the High Contracting Party.
Article 23 - Terms of office and dismissal
1. The judges shall be elected for a period of nine years.  They may not be re-elected.
2. The judges shall hold office until replaced. They shall,  however, continue to deal with such cases as they already  have under consideration.
3. No judge may be dismissed from office unless the other  judges decide by a majority of two-thirds that that judge has  ceased to fulfil the required conditions.
Article 24 - Registry and rapporteurs
1. The Court shall have a registry, the functions and organisation of which shall be laid down in the rules of the Court.
2. When sitting in a single-judge formation, the Court shall be assisted by rapporteurs who shall function under the authority of the President of the Court. They shall form part of the Court's registry.
Article 25 - Plenary Court
The plenary Court shall
a) elect its President and one or two Vice-Presidents for a period of three years; they may be re-elected;
b) set up Chambers, constituted for a fixed period of time;
c) elect the Presidents of the Chambers of the Court; they may be re-elected;
d) adopt the rules of the Court;
e) elect the Registrar and one or more Deputy Registrars;
f) make any request under Article 26, paragraph 2.
Article 26 - Single-judge formation, committees, Chambers and Grand Chamber
1. To consider cases brought before it, the Court shall sit in a single-judge formation, in committees of three judges, in Chambers of seven judges and in a Grand Chamber of seventeen judges. The Court's Chambers shall set up committees for a fixed period of time.
2. At the request of the plenary Court, the Committee of Ministers may, by a unanimous decision and for a fixed period, reduce to five the number of judges of the Chambers.
3. When sitting as a single judge, a judge shall not examine any application against the High Contracting Party in respect of which that judge has been elected.
4. There shall sit as an ex officio member of the Chamber and the Grand Chamber the judge elected in respect of the High Contracting Party concerned. If there is none or if that judge is unable to sit, a person chosen by the President of the Court from a list submitted in advance by that Party shall sit in the capacity of judge.
5. The Grand Chamber shall also include the President of the Court, the Vice-Presidents, the Presidents of the Chambers and other judges chosen in accordance with the rules of the Court.
When a case is referred to the Grand Chamber under Article 43, no judge from the Chamber which rendered the judgment shall sit in the Grand Chamber, with the exception of the President of the Chamber and the judge who sat in respect of the High Contracting Party concerned.
Article 27 - Competence of single judges
1. A single judge may declare inadmissible or strike out of the Court's list of cases an application submitted under Article 34, where such a decision can be taken without further examination.
2. The decision shall be final.
3. If the single judge does not declare an application inadmissible or strike it out, that judge shall forward it to a committee or to a Chamber for further examination.
Article 28 - Competence of committees
1. In respect of an application submitted under Article 34, a committee may, by a unanimous vote,
a) declare it inadmissible or strike it out of its list of cases, where such decision can be taken without further examination; or
b) declare it admissible and render at the same time a judgment on the merits, if the underlying question in the case, concerning the interpretation or the application of the Convention or the Protocols thereto, is already the subject of well-established case-law of the Court.
2. Decisions and judgments under paragraph 1 shall be final.
3. If the judge elected in respect of the High Contracting Party concerned is not a member of the committee, the committee may at any stage of the proceedings invite that judge to take the place of one of the members of the committee, having regard to all relevant factors, including whether that Party has contested the application of the procedure under paragraph 1.b.
Article 29 - Decisions by Chambers on admissibility and merits
1. If no decision is taken under Article 27 or 28, or no judgment rendered under Article 28, a Chamber shall decide on the admissibility and merits of individual applications submitted under Article 34. The decision on admissibility may be taken separately.
2. A Chamber shall decide on the admissibility and merits of inter-State applications submitted under Article 33. The decision on admissibility shall be taken separately unless the Court, in exceptional cases, decides otherwise.
Article 30 - Relinquishment of jurisdiction to the Grand Chamber
Where a case pending before a Chamber raises a serious  question affecting the interpretation of the Convention or  the protocols thereto, or where the resolution of a question  before the Chamber might have a result inconsistent with a  judgment previously delivered by the Court, the Chamber may,  at any time before it has rendered its judgment, relinquish  jurisdiction in favour of the Grand Chamber.
Article 31 - Powers of the Grand Chamber
The Grand Chamber shall
a) determine applications submitted either under Article 33 or Article 34 when a Chamber has relinquished jurisdiction under Article 30 or when the case has been referred to it under Article 43;
b) decide on issues referred to the Court by the Committee of Ministers in accordance with Article 46, paragraph 4; and
c) consider requests for advisory opinions submitted under Article 47.
Article 32 - Jurisdiction of the Court
1. The jurisdiction of the Court shall extend to all matters concerning the interpretation and application of the Convention and the Protocols thereto which are referred to it as provided in Articles 33, 34, 46 and 47.
2. In the event of dispute as to whether the Court has jurisdiction, the Court shall decide.
Article 33 - Inter-State cases
Any High Contracting Party may refer to the Court any alleged breach of the provisions of the Convention and the Protocols thereto by another High Contracting Party.
Article 34 - Individual applications
The Court may receive applications from any person, non-
governmental organisation or group of individuals claiming to be the victim of a violation by one of the High Contracting Parties of the rights set forth in the Convention or the Protocols thereto. The High Contracting Parties undertake not to hinder in any way the effective exercise of this right.
Article 35 - Admissibility criteria
1. The Court may only deal with the matter after all domestic  remedies have been exhausted, according to the generally  recognised rules of international law, and within a period of  four months from the date on which the final decision was  taken.
2. The Court shall not deal with any application submitted  under Article 34 that
a) is anonymous; or
b) is substantially the same as a matter that has already  been examined by the Court or has already been submitted to  another procedure of international investigation or  settlement and contains no relevant new information.
3. The Court shall declare inadmissible any individual  application submitted under Article 34 if it considers  that:
a) the application is incompatible with the provisions  of the Convention or the Protocols thereto, manifestly  ill-founded, or an abuse of the right of individual  application; or
b) the applicant has not suffered a significant disadvantage,  unless respect for human rights as defined in the Convention  and the Protocols thereto requires an examination of the  application on the merits.
4. The Court shall reject any application which it considers  inadmissible under this Article. It may do so at any stage of  the proceedings.
Article 36 - Third party intervention
1. In all cases before a Chamber or the Grand Chamber, a High Contracting Party one of whose nationals is an applicant shall have the right to submit written comments and to take part in hearings.
2. The President of the Court may, in the interest of the proper administration of justice, invite any High Contracting Party which is not a party to the proceedings or any person concerned who is not the applicant to submit written comments or take part in hearings.
3. In all cases before a Chamber or the Grand Chamber, the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights may submit written comments and take part in hearings.
Article 37 - Striking out applications
1. The Court may at any stage of the proceedings decide to strike an application out of its list of cases where the circumstances lead to the conclusion that
a) the applicant does not intend to pursue his application; or
b) the matter has been resolved; or
c) for any other reason established by the Court, it is no longer justified to continue the examination of the application.
However, the Court shall continue the examination of the application if respect for human rights as defined in the Convention and the Protocols thereto so requires.
2. The Court may decide to restore an application to its list of cases if it considers that the circumstances justify such a course.
Article 38 - Examination of
the case
The Court shall examine the case together with the representatives of the parties and, if need be, undertake an investigation, for the effective conduct of which the High Contracting Parties concerned shall furnish all necessary facilities.
Article 39 - Friendly settlements
1. At any stage of the proceedings, the Court may place itself at the disposal of the parties concerned with a view to securing a friendly settlement of the matter on the basis of respect for human rights as defined in the Convention and the Protocols thereto.
2. Proceedings conducted under paragraph 1 shall be confidential.
3. If a friendly settlement is effected, the Court shall strike the case out of its list by means of a decision which shall be confined to a brief statement of the facts and of the solution reached.
4. This decision shall be transmitted to the Committee of Ministers, which shall supervise the execution of the terms of the friendly settlement as set out in the decision.
Article 40 - Public hearings and access to documents
1. Hearings shall be in public unless the Court in exceptional circumstances decides otherwise.
2. Documents deposited with the Registrar shall be accessible to the public unless the President of the Court decides otherwise.
Article 41 - Just satisfaction
If the Court finds that there has been a violation of the Convention or the Protocols thereto, and if the internal law of the High Contracting Party concerned allows only partial reparation to be made, the Court shall, if necessary, afford just satisfaction to the injured party.
Article 42 - Judgments of Chambers
Judgments of Chambers shall become final in accordance with the provisions of Article 44, paragraph 2.
Article 43 - Referral to the Grand Chamber
1. Within a period of three months from the date of the judgment of the Chamber, any party to the case may, in exceptional cases, request that the case be referred to the Grand Chamber.
2. A panel of five judges of the Grand Chamber shall accept the request if the case raises a serious question affecting the interpretation or application of the Convention or the Protocols thereto, or a serious issue of general importance.
3. If the panel accepts the request, the Grand Chamber shall decide the case by means of a judgment.
Article 44 - Final judgments
1. The judgment of the Grand Chamber shall be final.
2. The judgment of a Chamber shall become final
a) when the parties declare that they will not request that the case be referred to the Grand Chamber; or
b) three months after the date of the judgment, if reference of the case to the Grand Chamber has not been requested; or
c) when the panel of the Grand Chamber rejects the request to refer under Article 43.
3. The final judgment shall be published.
Article 45 - Reasons for judgments and decisions
1. Reasons shall be given for judgments as well as for decisions declaring applications admissible or inadmissible.
2. If a judgment does not represent, in whole or in part, the unanimous opinion of the judges, any judge shall be entitled to deliver a separate opinion.
Article 46 - Binding force and execution of judgments
1. The High Contracting Parties undertake to abide by the final judgment of the Court in any case to which they are parties.
2. The final judgment of the Court shall be transmitted to the Committee of Ministers, which shall supervise its execution.
3. If the Committee of Ministers considers that the supervision of the execution of a final judgment is hindered by a problem of interpretation of the judgment, it may refer the matter to the Court for a ruling on the question of interpretation. A referral decision shall require a majority vote of two thirds of the representatives entitled to sit on the Committee.
4. If the Committee of Ministers considers that a High Contracting Party refuses to abide by a final judgment in a case to which it is a party, it may, after serving formal notice on that Party and by decision adopted by a majority vote of two thirds of the representatives entitled to sit on the Committee, refer to the Court the question whether that Party has failed to fulfil its obligation under paragraph 1.
5. If the Court finds a violation of paragraph 1, it shall refer the case to the Committee of Ministers for consideration of the measures to be taken. If the Court finds no violation of paragraph 1, it shall refer the case to the Committee of Ministers, which shall close its examination of the case.
Article 47 - Advisory opinions
1. The Court may, at the request of the Committee of Ministers, give advisory opinions on legal questions concerning the interpretation of the Convention and the Protocols thereto.
2. Such opinions shall not deal with any question relating to the content or scope of the rights or freedoms defined in Section I of the Convention and the Protocols thereto, or with any other question which the Court or the Committee of Ministers might have to consider in consequence of any such proceedings as could be instituted in accordance with the Convention.
3. Decisions of the Committee of Ministers to request an advisory opinion of the Court shall require a majority vote of the representatives entitled to sit on the Committee.
Article 48 - Advisory jurisdiction of the Court
The Court shall decide whether a request for an advisory opinion submitted by the Committee of Ministers is within its competence as defined in Article 47.
Article 49 - Reasons for advisory opinions
1. Reasons shall be given for advisory opinions of the Court.
2. If the advisory opinion does not represent, in whole or in part, the unanimous opinion of the judges, any judge shall be entitled to deliver a separate opinion.
3. Advisory opinions of the Court shall be communicated to the Committee of Ministers.
Article 50 - Expenditure on the Court
The expenditure on the Court shall be borne by the Council of Europe.
Article 51 - Privileges and immunities of judges
The judges shall be entitled, during the exercise of their functions, to the privileges and immunities provided for in Article 40 of the Statute of the Council of Europe and in the agreements made thereunder.
SECTION III - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Article 52 - Inquiries by the Secretary General
On receipt of a request from the Secretary General of the Council of Europe any High Contracting Party shall furnish an explanation of the manner in which its internal law ensures the effective implementation of any of the provisions of the Convention.
Article 53 - Safeguard for existing human rights
Nothing in this Convention shall be construed as limiting or derogating from any of the human rights and fundamental freedoms which may be ensured under the laws of any High Contracting Party or under any other agreement to which it is a Party.
Article 54 - Powers of the Committee of Ministers
Nothing in this Convention shall prejudice the powers conferred on the Committee of Ministers by the Statute of the Council of Europe.
Article 55 - Exclusion of other means of dispute settlement
The High Contracting Parties agree that, except by special agreement, they will not avail themselves of treaties, conventions or declarations in force between them for the purpose of submitting, by way of petition, a dispute arising out of the interpretation or application of this Convention to a means of settlement other than those provided for in this Convention.
Article 56 - Territorial application
1. Any State may at the time of its ratification or at any time thereafter declare by notification addressed to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe that the present Convention shall, subject to paragraph 4 of this Article, extend to all or any of the territories for whose international relations it is responsible.
2. The Convention shall extend to the territory or territories named in the notification as from the thirtieth day after the receipt of this notification by the Secretary General of the Council of Europe.
3. The provisions of this Convention shall be applied in such territories with due regard, however, to local requirements.
4. Any State which has made a declaration in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article may at any time thereafter declare on behalf of one or more of the territories to which the declaration relates that it accepts the competence of the Court to receive applications from individuals, non-governmental organisations or groups of individuals as provided by Article 34 of the Convention.
Article 57 - Reservations
1. Any State may, when signing this Convention or when depositing its instrument of ratification, make a reservation in respect of any particular provision of the Convention to the extent that any law then in force in its territory is not in conformity with the provision. Reservations of a general character shall not be permitted under this article.
2. Any reservation made under this article shall contain a brief statement of the law concerned.
Article 58 - Denunciation
1. A High Contracting Party may denounce the present Convention only after the expiry of five years from the date on which it became a party to it and after six months' notice contained in a notification addressed to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, who shall inform the other High Contracting Parties.
2. Such a denunciation shall not have the effect of releasing the High Contracting Party concerned from its obligations under this Convention in respect of any act which, being capable of constituting a violation of such obligations, may have been performed by it before the date at which the denunciation became effective.
3. Any High Contracting Party which shall cease to be a member of the Council of Europe shall cease to be a Party to this Convention under the same conditions.
4. The Convention may be denounced in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraphs in respect of any territory to which it has been declared to extend under the terms of Article 56.
Article 59 - Signature and ratification
1. This Convention shall be open to the signature of the members of the Council of Europe. It shall be ratified.
Ratifications shall be deposited with the Secretary General of the Council of Europe.
2. The European Union may accede to this Convention.
3. The present Convention shall come into force after the deposit of ten instruments of ratification.
4. As regards any signatory ratifying subsequently, the Convention shall come into force at the date of the deposit of its instrument of ratification.
5. The Secretary General of the Council of Europe shall notify all the members of the Council of Europe of the entry into force of the Convention, the names of the High Contracting Parties who have ratified it, and the deposit of all instruments of ratification which may be effected subsequently.
Done at Rome this 4th day of November 1950, in English and French, both texts being equally authentic, in a single copy which shall remain deposited in the archives of the Council of Europe. The Secretary General shall transmit certified copies to each of the signatories.
Protocol to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms
The governments signatory hereto, being members of the Council of Europe,
Being resolved to take steps to ensure the collective enforcement of certain rights and freedoms other than those already included in Section I of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms signed at Rome on 4 November 1950 (hereinafter referred to as "the Convention"),
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1 - Protection of property
Every natural or legal person is entitled to the peaceful enjoyment of his possessions. No one shall be deprived of his possessions except in the public interest and subject to the conditions provided for by law and by the general principles of international law.
The preceding provisions shall not, however, in any way impair the right of a State to enforce such laws as it deems necessary to control the use of property in accordance with the general interest or to secure the payment of taxes or other contributions or penalties.
Article 2 - Right to education
No person shall be denied the right to education. In the exercise of any functions which it assumes in relation to education and to teaching, the State shall respect the right of parents to ensure such education and teaching in conformity with their own religious and philosophical convictions.
Article 3 - Right to free elections
The High Contracting Parties undertake to hold free elections at reasonable intervals by secret ballot, under conditions which will ensure the free expression of the opinion of the people in the choice of the legislature.
Article 4 - Territorial application
Any High Contracting Party may at the time of signature or ratification or at any time thereafter communicate to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe a declaration stating the extent to which it undertakes that the provisions of the present Protocol shall apply to such of the territories for the international relations of which it is responsible as are named therein.
Any High Contracting Party which has communicated a declaration in virtue of the preceding paragraph may from time to time communicate a further declaration modifying the terms of any former declaration or terminating the application of the provisions of this Protocol in respect of any territory.
A declaration made in accordance with this article shall be deemed to have been made in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 56 of the Convention.
Article 5 - Relationship to the Convention
As between the High Contracting Parties the provisions of Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 of this Protocol shall be regarded as additional articles to the Convention and all the provisions of the Convention shall apply accordingly.
Article 6 - Signature and ratification
This Protocol shall be open for signature by the members of the Council of Europe, who are the signatories of the Convention;
it shall be ratified at the same time as or after the ratification of the Convention. It shall enter into force after the deposit of ten instruments of ratification. As regards any signatory ratifying subsequently, the Protocol shall enter into force at the date of the deposit of its instrument of ratification.
The instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, who will notify all members of the names of those who have ratified.
Done at Paris on the 20 th day of March 1952, in English and French, both texts being equally authentic, in a single copy which shall remain deposited in the archives of the Council of Europe. The Secretary General shall transmit certified copies to each of the signatory governments.
Protocol No. 4 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms securing certain rights and freedoms other than those already included in the Convention and in the First Protocol thereto
The governments signatory hereto, being members of the Council of Europe,
Being resolved to take steps to ensure the collective enforcement of certain rights and freedoms other than those already included in Section I of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms signed at Rome on 4th November 1950 (hereinafter referred to as the
"Convention") and in Articles 1 to 3 of the First Protocol to the Convention, signed at Paris on 20th March 1952,
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1 - Prohibition of imprisonment for debt
No one shall be deprived of his liberty merely on the ground of inability to fulfil a contractual obligation.
Article 2 - Freedom of movement
1. Everyone lawfully within the territory of a State shall, within that territory, have the right to liberty of movement and freedom to choose his residence.
2. Everyone shall be free to leave any country, including his own.
3. No restrictions shall be placed on the exercise of these rights other than such as are in accordance with law and are necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national security or public safety, for the maintenance of ordre public, for the prevention of crime, for the protection of health or morals, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.
4. The rights set forth in paragraph 1 may also be subject, in particular areas, to restrictions imposed in accordance with law and justified by the public interest in a democratic society.
Article 3 - Prohibition of expulsion of nationals
1. No one shall be expelled, by means either of an individual or of a collective measure, from the territory of the State of which he is a national.
2. No one shall be deprived of the right to enter the territory of the State of which he is a national.
Article 4 - Prohibition of collective expulsion of aliens
Collective expulsion of aliens is prohibited.
Article 5 - Territorial application
1. Any High Contracting Party may, at the time of signature or ratification of this Protocol, or at any time thereafter, communicate to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe a declaration stating the extent to which it undertakes that the provisions of this Protocol shall apply to such of the territories for the international relations of which it is responsible as are named therein.
2. Any High Contracting Party which has communicated a declaration in virtue of the preceding paragraph may, from time to time, communicate a further declaration modifying the terms of any former declaration or terminating the application of the provisions of this Protocol in respect of any territory.
3. A declaration made in accordance with this article shall be deemed to have been made in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 56 of the Convention.
4. The territory of any State to which this Protocol applies by virtue of ratification or acceptance by that State, and each territory to which this Protocol is applied by virtue of a declaration by that State under this article, shall be treated as separate territories for the purpose of the references in Articles 2 and 3 to the territory of a State.
5. Any State which has made a declaration in accordance with paragraph 1 or 2 of this Article may at any time thereafter declare on behalf of one or more of the territories to which the declaration relates that it accepts the competence of the Court to receive applications from individuals, non-
governmental organisations or groups of individuals as provided in Article 34 of the Convention in respect of all or any of Articles 1 to 4 of this Protocol.
Article 6 - Relationship to the Convention
As between the High Contracting Parties the provisions of Articles 1 to 5 of this Protocol shall be regarded as additional Articles to the Convention, and all the provisions of the Convention shall apply accordingly.
Article 7 - Signature and ratification
1. This Protocol shall be open for signature by the members of the Council of Europe who are the signatories of the Convention; it shall be ratified at the same time as or after the ratification of the Convention. It shall enter into force after the deposit of five instruments of ratification. As regards any signatory ratifying subsequently, the Protocol shall enter into force at the date of the deposit of its instrument of ratification.
2. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, who will notify all members of the names of those who have ratified.
In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, have signed this Protocol.
Done at Strasbourg, this 16th day of September 1963, in English and in French, both texts being equally authoritative, in a single copy which shall remain deposited in the archives of the Council of Europe. The Secretary General shall transmit certified copies to each of the signatory states.
Protocol No. 6 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms concerning the Abolition of the Death Penalty
The member States of the Council of Europe, signatory to this Protocol to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed at Rome on 4 November 1950
(hereinafter referred to as "the Convention"),
Considering that the evolution that has occurred in several member States of the Council of Europe expresses a general tendency in favour of abolition of the death penalty;
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1 - Abolition of the death penalty
The death penalty shall be abolished. No-one shall be condemned to such penalty or executed.
Article 2 - Death penalty in time of war
A State may make provision in its law for the death penalty in respect of acts committed in time of war or of imminent threat of war; such penalty shall be applied only in the instances laid down in the law and in accordance with its provisions. The State shall communicate to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe the relevant provisions of that law.
Article 3 - Prohibition of derogations
No derogation from the provisions of this Protocol shall be made under Article 15 of the Convention.
Article 4 - Prohibition of reservations
No reservation may be made under Article 57 of the Convention in respect of the provisions of this Protocol.
Article 5 - Territorial application
1. Any State may at the time of signature or when depositing its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval, specify the territory or territories to which this Protocol shall apply.
2. Any State may at any later date, by a declaration addressed to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, extend the application of this Protocol to any other territory specified in the declaration. In respect of such territory the Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the date of receipt of such declaration by the Secretary General.
3. Any declaration made under the two preceding paragraphs may, in respect of any territory specified in such declaration, be with-drawn by a notification addressed to the Secretary General. The withdrawal shall become effective on the first day of the month following the date of receipt of such notification by the Secretary General.
Article 6 - Relationship to the Convention
As between the States Parties the provisions of Articles 1 and 5 of this Protocol shall be regarded as additional articles to the Convention and all the provisions of the Convention shall apply accordingly.
Article 7 - Signature and ratification
The Protocol shall be open for signature by the member States of the Council of Europe, signatories to the Convention. It shall be subject to ratification, acceptance or approval. A member State of the Council of Europe may not ratify, accept or approve this Protocol unless it has, simultaneously or previously, ratified the Convention. Instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval shall be deposited with the Secretary General of the Council of Europe.
Article 8 - Entry into force
1. This Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the date on which five member States of the Council of Europe have expressed their consent to be bound by the Protocol in accordance with the provisions of Article 7.
2. In respect of any member State which subsequently expresses its consent to be bound by it, the Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the date of the deposit of the instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval.
Article 9 - Depositary functions
The Secretary General of the Council of Europe shall notify the member States of the Council of:
a) any signature;
b) the deposit of any instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval;
c) any date of entry into force of this Protocol in accordance with Articles 5 and 8;
d) any other act, notification or communication relating to this Protocol.
In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, have signed this Protocol.
Done at Strasbourg, this 28th day of April 1983, in English and in French, both texts being equally authentic, in a single copy which shall be deposited in the archives of the Council of Europe. The Secretary General of the Council of Europe shall transmit certified copies to each member State of the Council of Europe.
Protocol No. 7 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms
The member States of the Council of Europe signatory hereto,
Being resolved to take further steps to ensure the collective enforcement of certain rights and freedoms by means of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms signed at Rome on 4 November 1950 (hereinafter referred to as "the Convention"),
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1 - Procedural safeguards relating to expulsion of aliens
1. An alien lawfully resident in the territory of a State shall not be expelled therefrom except in pursuance of a decision reached in accordance with law and shall be allowed:
a) to submit reasons against his expulsion,
b) to have his case reviewed, and
c) to be represented for these purposes before the competent authority or a person or persons designated by that authority.
2. An alien may be expelled before the exercise of his rights under paragraph 1.a, b and c of this Article, when such expulsion is necessary in the interests of public order or is grounded on reasons of national security.
Article 2 - Right of appeal in criminal matters
1. Everyone convicted of a criminal offence by a tribunal shall have the right to have his conviction or sentence reviewed by a higher tribunal. The exercise of this right, including the grounds on which it may be exercised, shall be governed by law.
2. This right may be subject to exceptions in regard to offences of a minor character, as prescribed by law, or in cases in which the person concerned was tried in the first instance by the highest tribunal or was convicted following an appeal against acquittal.
Article 3 - Compensation for wrongful conviction
When a person has by a final decision been convicted of a criminal offence and when subsequently his conviction has been reversed, or he has been pardoned, on the ground that a new or newly discovered fact shows conclusively that there has been a miscarriage of justice, the person who has suffered punishment as a result of such conviction shall be compensated according to the law or the practice of the State concerned, unless it is proved that the non-disclosure of the unknown fact in time is wholly or partly attributable to him.
Article 4 - Right not to be tried or punished twice
1. No one shall be liable to be tried or punished again in criminal proceedings under the jurisdiction of the same State for an offence for which he has already been finally acquitted or convicted in accordance with the law and penal procedure of that State.
2. The provisions of the preceding paragraph shall not prevent the reopening of the case in accordance with the law and penal procedure of the State concerned, if there is evidence of new or newly discovered facts, or if there has been a fundamental defect in the previous proceedings, which could affect the outcome of the case.
3. No derogation from this Article shall be made under Article 15 of the Convention.
Article 5 - Equality between spouses
Spouses shall enjoy equality of rights and responsibilities of a private law character between them, and in their relations with their children, as to marriage, during marriage and in the event of its dissolution. This Article shall not prevent States from taking such measures as are necessary in the interests of the children.
Article 6 - Territorial application
1. Any State may at the time of signature or when depositing its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval, specify the territory or territories to which the Protocol shall apply and state the extent to which it undertakes that the provisions of this Protocol shall apply to such territory or territories.
2. Any State may at any later date, by a declaration addressed to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, extend the application of this Protocol to any other territory specified in the declaration. In respect of such territory the Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of a period of two months after the date of receipt by the Secretary General of such declaration.
3. Any declaration made under the two preceding paragraphs may, in respect of any territory specified in such declaration, be withdrawn or modified by a notification addressed to the Secretary General. The withdrawal or modification shall become effective on the first day of the month following the expiration of a period of two months after the date of receipt of such notification by the Secretary General.
4. A declaration made in accordance with this Article shall be deemed to have been made in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 56 of the Convention.
5. The territory of any State to which this Protocol applies by virtue of ratification, acceptance or approval by that State, and each territory to which this Protocol is applied by virtue of a declaration by that State under this Article, may be treated as separate territories for the purpose of the reference in Article 1 to the territory of a State.
6. Any State which has made a declaration in accordance with paragraph 1 or 2 of this Article may at any time thereafter declare on behalf of one or more of the territories to which the declaration relates that it accepts the competence of the Court to receive applications from individuals, nongovernmental organisations or groups of individuals as provided in Article 34 of the Convention in respect of articles 1 to 5 of this Protocol.
Article 7 - Relationship to the Convention
As between the States Parties, the provisions of Article 1 to 6 of this Protocol shall be regarded as additional Articles to the Convention, and all the provisions of the Convention shall apply accordingly.
Article 8 - Signature and ratification
This Protocol shall be open for signature by member States of the Council of Europe which have signed the Convention. It is subject to ratification, acceptance or approval. A member State of the Council of Europe may not ratify, accept or approve this Protocol without previously or simultaneously ratifying the Convention. Instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval shall be deposited with the Secretary General of the Council of Europe.
Article 9 - Entry into force
1. This Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of a period of two months after the date on which seven member States of the Council of Europe have expressed their consent to be bound by the Protocol in accordance with the provisions of Article 8.
2. In respect of any member State which subsequently expresses its consent to be bound by it, the Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of a period of two months after the date of the deposit of the instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval.
Article 10 - Depositary functions
The Secretary General of the Council of Europe shall notify all the member States of the Council of Europe of:
a) any signature;
b) the deposit of any instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval;
c) any date of entry into force of this Protocol in accordance with Articles 6 and 9;
d) any other act, notification or declaration relating to this Protocol.
In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, have signed this Protocol.
Done at Strasbourg, this 22nd day of November 1984, in English and French, both texts being equally authentic, in a single copy which shall be deposited in the archives of the Council of Europe. The Secretary General of the Council of Europe shall transmit certified copies to each member State of the Council of Europe.
Protocol No. 13 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, concerning the abolition of the death penalty in all circumstances
The member States of the Council of Europe signatory hereto,
Convinced that everyone's right to life is a basic value in a democratic society and that the abolition of the death penalty is essential for the protection of this right and for the full recognition of the inherent dignity of all human beings;
Wishing to strengthen the protection of the right to life guaranteed by the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms signed at Rome on 4 November 1950
(hereinafter referred to as "the Convention");
Noting that Protocol No. 6 to the Convention, concerning the Abolition of the Death Penalty, signed at Strasbourg on 28 April 1983, does not exclude the death penalty in respect of acts committed in time of war or of imminent threat of war;
Being resolved to take the final step in order to abolish the death penalty in all circumstances,
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1 - Abolition of the death penalty
The death penalty shall be abolished. No one shall be condemned to such penalty or executed.
Article 2 - Prohibition of derogations
No derogation from the provisions of this Protocol shall be made under Article 15 of the Convention.
Article 3 - Prohibition of reservations
No reservation may be made under Article 57 of the Convention in respect of the provisions of this Protocol.
Article 4 - Territorial application
1 Any State may, at the time of signature or when depositing its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval, specify the territory or territories to which this Protocol shall apply.
2 Any State may at any later date, by a declaration addressed to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, extend the application of this Protocol to any other territory specified in the declaration. In respect of such territory the Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of a period of three months after the date of receipt of such declaration by the Secretary General.
3 Any declaration made under the two preceding paragraphs may, in respect of any territory specified in such declaration, be withdrawn or modified by a notification addressed to the Secretary General. The withdrawal or modification shall become effective on the first day of the month following the expiration of a period of three months after the date of receipt of such notification by the Secretary General.
Article 5 - Relationship to the Convention
As between the States Parties the provisions of Articles 1 to 4 of this Protocol shall be regarded as additional articles to the Convention, and all the provisions of the Convention shall apply accordingly.
Article 6 - Signature and ratification
This Protocol shall be open for signature by member States of the Council of Europe which have signed the Convention. It is subject to ratification, acceptance or approval. A member State of the Council of Europe may not ratify, accept or approve this Protocol without previously or simultaneously ratifying the Convention. Instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval shall be deposited with the Secretary General of the Council of Europe.
Article 7 - Entry into force
1 This Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of a period of three months after the date on which ten member States of the Council of Europe have expressed their consent to be bound by the Protocol in accordance with the provisions of Article 6.
2 In respect of any member State which subsequently expresses its consent to be bound by it, the Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of a period of three months after the date of the deposit of the instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval.
Article 8 - Depositary functions
The Secretary General of the Council of Europe shall notify all the member States of the Council of Europe of:
a any signature;
b the deposit of any instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval;
c any date of entry into force of this Protocol in accordance with Articles 4 and 7;
d any other act, notification or communication relating to this Protocol.
In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, have signed this Protocol.
Done at Vilnius, this 3rd day of May 2002, in English and in French, both texts being equally authentic, in a single copy which shall be deposited in the archives of the Council of Europe. The Secretary General of the Council of Europe shall transmit certified copies to each member State of the Council of Europe.
Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental  Freedoms
Protocol No. 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human  Rights and Fundamental Freedoms
Strasbourg,
Preamble
The member States of the Council of Europe and other High  Contracting Parties to the Convention for the Protection of  Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed at Rome on 4  November 1950 (hereinafter referred to as "the Convention"),  signatories hereto,
Having regard to the provisions of the Convention and, in  particular, Article 19 establishing the European Court of  Human Rights (hereinafter referred to as "the Court");
Considering that the extension of the Court's competence to  give advisory opinions will further enhance the interaction  between the Court and national authorities and thereby  reinforce implementation of the Convention, in accordance with  the principle of subsidiarity;
Having regard to Opinion No. 285 (2013) adopted by the  Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on 28 June 
2013,
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
1. Highest courts and tribunals of a High Contracting Party,  as specified in accordance with Article 10, may request the  Court to give advisory opinions on questions of principle  relating to the interpretation or application of the rights  and freedoms defined in the Convention or the protocols  thereto.
2. The requesting court or tribunal may seek an advisory  opinion only in the context of a case pending before it.
3. The requesting court or tribunal shall give reasons for its  request and shall provide the relevant legal and factual  background of the pending case.
Article 2
1. A panel of five judges of the Grand Chamber shall decide  whether to accept the request for an advisory opinion, having  regard to Article 1. The panel shall give reasons for any  refusal to accept the request.
2. If the panel accepts the request, the Grand Chamber shall  deliver the advisory opinion.
3. The panel and the Grand Chamber, as referred to in the  preceding paragraphs, shall include ex officio the judge  elected in respect of the High Contracting Party to which the  requesting court or tribunal pertains. If there is none or if  that judge is unable to sit, a person chosen by the President  of the Court from a list submitted in advance by that Party  shall sit in the capacity of judge.
Article 3
The Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights and the  High Contracting Party to which the requesting court or  tribunal pertains shall have the right to submit written  comments and take part in any hearing. The President of the  Court may, in the interest of the proper administration of  justice, invite any other High Contracting Party or person  also to submit written comments or take part in any hearing.
Article 4
1. Reasons shall be given for advisory opinions.
2. If the advisory opinion does not represent, in whole or in  part, the unanimous opinion of the judges, any judge shall be  entitled to deliver a separate opinion.
3. Advisory opinions shall be communicated to the requesting  court or tribunal and to the High Contracting Party to which  that court or tribunal pertains.
4. Advisory opinions shall be published.
Article 5
Advisory opinions shall not be binding.
Article 6
As between the High Contracting Parties the provisions of  Articles 1 to 5 of this Protocol shall be regarded as  additional articles to the Convention, and all the provisions  of the Convention shall apply accordingly.
Article 7
1. This Protocol shall be open for signature by the High  Contracting Parties to the Convention, which may express their  consent to be bound by:
a) signature without reservation as to ratification,  acceptance or approval; or
b) signature subject to ratification, acceptance or approval,  followed by ratification, acceptance or approval.
2. The instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval  shall be deposited with the Secretary General of the Council  of Europe.
Article 8
1. This Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of  the month following the expiration of a period of three months  after the date on which ten High Contracting Parties to the  Convention have expressed their consent to be bound by the  Protocol in accordance with the provisions of Article 7.
2. In respect of any High Contracting Party to the Convention  which subsequently expresses its consent to be bound by it,  the Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the  month following the expiration of a period of three months  after the date of the expression of its consent to be bound by  the Protocol in accordance with the provisions of Article 7.
Article 9
No reservation may be made under Article 57 of the Convention  in respect of the provisions of this Protocol.
Article 10
Each High Contracting Party to the Convention shall, at the  time of signature or when depositing its instrument of  ratification, acceptance or approval, by means of a  declaration addressed to the Secretary General of the Council  of Europe, indicate the courts or tribunals that it designates  for the purposes of Article 1, paragraph 1, of this Protocol.  This declaration may be modified at any later date and in the  same manner.
Article 11
The Secretary General of the Council of Europe shall notify  the member States of the Council of Europe and the other High  Contracting Parties to the Convention of:
a) any signature;
b) the deposit of any instrument of ratification, acceptance  or approval;
c) any date of entry into force of this Protocol in accordance  with Article 8,
d) any declaration made in accordance with Article 10; and
e) any other act, notification or communication relating to  this Protocol.
In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorised  thereto, have signed this Protocol.
Convention de sauvegarde des Droits de l'Homme et des Libertés fondamentales
Les gouvernements signataires, membres du Conseil de  l'Europe,
Considérant la Déclaration universelle des Droits de l'Homme,  proclamée par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies le 10  décembre 1948 ;
Considérant que cette déclaration tend à assurer la  reconnaissance et l'application universelles et effectives  des droits qui y sont énoncés ;
Considérant que le but du Conseil de l'Europe est de réaliser  une union plus étroite entre ses membres, et que l'un des  moyens d'atteindre ce but est la sauvegarde et le  développement des droits de l'homme et des libertés  fondamentales ;
Réaffirmant leur profond attachement à ces libertés  fondamentales qui constituent les assises mêmes de la justice  et de la paix dans le monde et dont le maintien repose  essentiellement sur un régime politique véritablement  démocratique, d'une part, et, d'autre part, sur une  conception commune et un commun respect des droits de l'homme  dont ils se réclament;
Résolus, en tant que gouvernements d'Etats européens animés  d'un même esprit et possédant un patrimoine commun d'idéal et  de traditions politiques, de respect de la liberté et de  prééminence du droit, à prendre les premières mesures propres 
à assurer la garantie collective de certains des droits 
énoncés dans la Déclaration universelle,
Affirmant qu'il incombe au premier chef aux Hautes Parties  contractantes, conformément au principe de subsidiarité, de  garantir le respect des droits et libertés définis dans la  présente Convention et ses protocoles, et que, ce faisant,  elles jouissent d'une marge d'appréciation, sous le contrôle  de la Cour européenne des Droits de l'Homme instituée par la  présente Convention,
Sont convenus de ce qui suit :
Article 1 - Obligation de respecter les droits de l'homme
Les Hautes Parties contractantes reconnaissent à toute personne relevant de leur juridiction les droits et libertés définis au titre I de la présente Convention :
TITRE I - DROITS ET LIBERTÉS
Article 2 - Droit à la vie
1. Le droit de toute personne à la vie est protégé par la loi.
La mort ne peut être infligée à quiconque intentionnellement, sauf en exécution d'une sentence capitale prononcée par un tribunal au cas où le délit est puni de cette peine par la loi.
2. La mort n'est pas considérée comme infligée en violation de cet article dans les cas où elle résulterait d'un recours à la force rendu absolument nécessaire :
a) pour assurer la défense de toute personne contre la violence illégale ;
b) pour effectuer une arrestation régulière ou pour empêcher l'évasion d'une personne régulièrement détenue ;
c) pour réprimer, conformément à la loi, une émeute ou une insurrection.
Article 3 - Interdiction de la torture
Nul ne peut être soumis à la torture ni à des peines ou traitements inhumains ou dégradants.
Article 4 - Interdiction de l'esclavage et du travail forcé
1. Nul ne peut être tenu en esclavage ni en servitude.
2. Nul ne peut être astreint à accomplir un travail forcé ou obligatoire.
3. N'est pas considéré comme « travail forcé ou obligatoire »
au sens du présent article :
a) tout travail requis normalement d'une personne soumise à la détention dans les conditions prévues par l'article 5 de la présente Convention, ou durant sa mise en liberté conditionnelle ;
b) tout service de caractère militaire ou, dans le cas d'objecteurs de conscience dans les pays où l'objection de conscience est reconnue comme légitime, à un autre service à la place du service militaire obligatoire ;
c) tout service requis dans le cas de crises ou de calamités qui menacent la vie ou le bien-être de la communauté ;
d) tout travail ou service formant partie des obligations civiques normales.
Article 5 - Droit à la liberté et à la sûreté
1. Toute personne a droit à la liberté et à la sûreté. Nul ne peut être privé de sa liberté, sauf dans les cas suivants et selon les voies légales :
a) s'il est détenu régulièrement après condamnation par un tribunal compétent ;
b) s'il a fait l'objet d'une arrestation ou d'une détention régulières pour insoumission à une ordonnance rendue, conformément à la loi, par un tribunal ou en vue de garantir l'exécution d'une obligation prescrite par la loi ;
c) s'il a été arrêté et détenu en vue d'être conduit devant l'autorité judiciaire compétente, lorsqu'il y a des raisons plausibles de soupçonner qu'il a commis une infraction ou qu'il y a des motifs raisonnables de croire à la nécessité de l'empêcher de commettre une infraction ou de s'enfuir après l'accomplissement de celle-ci ;
d) s'il s'agit de la détention régulière d'un mineur, décidée pour son éducation surveillée ou de sa détention régulière, afin de le traduire devant l'autorité compétente ;
e) s'il s'agit de la détention régulière d'une personne susceptible de propager une maladie contagieuse, d'un aliéné, d'un alcoolique, d'un toxicomane ou d'un vagabond ;
f) s'il s'agit de l'arrestation ou de la détention régulières d'une personne pour l'empêcher de pénétrer irrégulièrement dans le territoire, ou contre laquelle une procédure d'expulsion ou d'extradition est en cours.
2. Toute personne arrêtée doit être informée, dans le plus court délai et dans une langue qu'elle comprend, des raisons de son arrestation et de toute accusation portée contre elle.
3. Toute personne arrêtée ou détenue, dans les conditions prévues au paragraphe 1.c du présent article, doit être aussitôt traduite devant un juge ou un autre magistrat habilité par la loi à exercer des fonctions judiciaires et a le droit d'être jugée dans un délai raisonnable, ou libérée pendant la procédure. La mise en liberté peut être subordonnée à une garantie assurant la comparution de l'intéressé à l'audience.
4. Toute personne privée de sa liberté par arrestation ou détention a le droit d'introduire un recours devant un tribunal, afin qu'il statue à bref délai sur la légalité de sa détention et ordonne sa libération si la détention est illégale.
5. Toute personne victime d'une arrestation ou d'une détention dans des conditions contraires aux dispositions de cet article a droit à réparation.
Article 6 - Droit à un procès équitable
1. Toute personne a droit à ce que sa cause soit entendue équitablement, publiquement et dans un délai raisonnable, par un tribunal indépendant et impartial, établi par la loi, qui décidera, soit des contestations sur ses droits et obligations de caractère civil, soit du bien-fondé de toute accusation en matière pénale dirigée contre elle. Le jugement doit être rendu publiquement, mais l'accès de la salle d'audience peut être interdit à la presse et au public pendant la totalité ou une partie du procès dans l'intérêt de la moralité, de l'ordre public ou de la sécurité nationale dans une société démocratique, lorsque les intérêts des mineurs ou la protection de la vie privée des parties au procès l'exigent, ou dans la mesure jugée strictement nécessaire par le tribunal, lorsque dans des circonstances spéciales la publicité serait de nature à porter atteinte aux intérêts de la justice.
2. Toute personne accusée d'une infraction est présumée innocente jusqu'à ce que sa culpabilité ait été légalement établie.
3. Tout accusé a droit notamment à :
a) être informé, dans le plus court délai, dans une langue qu'il comprend et d'une manière détaillée, de la nature et de la cause de l'accusation portée contre lui ;
b) disposer du temps et des facilités nécessaires à la préparation de sa défense ;
c) se défendre lui-même ou avoir l'assistance d'un défenseur de son choix et, s'il n'a pas les moyens de rémunérer un défenseur, pouvoir être assisté gratuitement par un avocat d'office, lorsque les intérêts de la justice l'exigent ;
d) interroger ou faire interroger les témoins à charge et obtenir la convocation et l'interrogation des témoins à décharge dans les mêmes conditions que les témoins à charge ;
e) se faire assister gratuitement d'un interprète, s'il ne comprend pas ou ne parle pas la langue employée à l'audience.
Article 7 - Pas de peine sans loi
1. Nul ne peut être condamné pour une action ou une omission qui, au moment où elle a été commise, ne constituait pas une infraction d'après le droit national ou international. De même il n'est infligé aucune peine plus forte que celle qui était applicable au moment où l'infraction a été commise.
2. Le présent article ne portera pas atteinte au jugement et à la punition d'une personne coupable d'une action ou d'une omission qui, au moment où elle a été commise, était criminelle d'après les principes généraux de droit reconnus par les nations civilisées.
Article 8 - Droit au respect de la vie privée et familiale
1. Toute personne a droit au respect de sa vie privée et familiale, de son domicile et de sa correspondance.
2. Il ne peut y avoir ingérence d'une autorité publique dans l'exercice de ce droit que pour autant que cette ingérence est prévue par la loi et qu'elle constitue une mesure qui, dans une société démocratique, est nécessaire à la sécurité nationale, à la sûreté publique, au bien-être économique du pays, à la défense de l'ordre et à la prévention des infractions pénales, à la protection de la santé ou de la morale, ou à la protection des droits et libertés d'autrui.
Article 9 - Liberté de pensée, de conscience et de religion
1. Toute personne a droit à la liberté de pensée, de conscience et de religion ; ce droit implique la liberté de changer de religion ou de conviction, ainsi que la liberté de manifester sa religion ou sa conviction individuellement ou collectivement, en public ou en privé, par le culte, l'enseignement, les pratiques et l'accomplissement des rites.
2. La liberté de manifester sa religion ou ses convictions ne peut faire l'objet d'autres restrictions que celles qui, prévues par la loi, constituent des mesures nécessaires, dans une société démocratique, à la sécurité publique, à la protection de l'ordre, de la santé ou de la morale publiques, ou à la protection des droits et libertés d'autrui.
Article 10 - Liberté d'expression
1. Toute personne a droit à la liberté d'expression. Ce droit comprend la liberté d'opinion et la liberté de recevoir ou de communiquer des informations ou des idées sans qu'il puisse y avoir ingérence d'autorités publiques et sans considération de frontière. Le présent article n'empêche pas les Etats de soumettre les entreprises de radiodiffusion, de cinéma ou de télévision à un régime d'autorisations.
2. L'exercice de ces libertés comportant des devoirs et des responsabilités peut être soumis à certaines formalités, conditions, restrictions ou sanctions prévues par la loi, qui constituent des mesures nécessaires, dans une société démocratique, à la sécurité nationale, à l'intégrité territoriale ou à la sûreté publique, à la défense de l'ordre et à la prévention du crime, à la protection de la santé ou de la morale, à la protection de la réputation ou des droits d'autrui, pour empêcher la divulgation d'informations confidentielles ou pour garantir l'autorité et l'impartialité du pouvoir judiciaire.
Article 11 - Liberté de réunion et d'association
1. Toute personne a droit à la liberté de réunion pacifique et à la liberté d'association, y compris le droit de fonder avec d'autres des syndicats et de s'affilier à des syndicats pour la défense de ses intérêts.
2. L'exercice de ces droits ne peut faire l'objet d'autres restrictions que celles qui, prévues par la loi, constituent des mesures nécessaires, dans une société démocratique, à la sécurité nationale, à la sûreté publique, à la défense de l'ordre et à la prévention du crime, à la protection de la santé ou de la morale, ou à la protection des droits et libertés d'autrui. Le présent article n'interdit pas que des restrictions légitimes soient imposées à l'exercice de ces droits
par les membres des forces armées, de la police ou de l'administration de l'Etat.
Article 12 - Droit au mariage
A partir de l'âge nubile, l'homme et la femme ont le droit de se marier et de fonder une famille selon les lois nationales régissant l'exercice de ce droit.
Article 13 - Droit à un recours effectif
Toute personne dont les droits et libertés reconnus dans la présente Convention ont été violés, a droit à l'octroi d'un recours effectif devant une instance nationale, alors même que la violation aurait été commise par des personnes agissant dans l'exercice de leurs fonctions officielles.
Article 14 - Interdiction de discrimination
La jouissance des droits et libertés reconnus dans la présente Convention doit être assurée, sans distinction aucune, fondée notamment sur le sexe, la race, la couleur, la langue, la religion, les opinions politiques ou toutes autres opinions, l'origine nationale ou sociale, l'appartenance à une minorité nationale, la fortune, la naissance ou toute autre situation.
Article 15 - Dérogation en cas d'état d'urgence
1. En cas de guerre ou en cas d'autre danger public menaçant la vie de la nation, toute Haute Partie contractante peut prendre des mesures dérogeant aux obligations prévues par la présente Convention, dans la stricte mesure où la situation l'exige et à la condition que ces mesures ne soient pas en contradiction avec les autres obligations découlant du droit international.
2. La disposition précédente n'autorise aucune dérogation à l'article 2, sauf pour le cas de décès résultant d'actes licites de guerre, et aux articles 3, 4 (paragraphe 1) et 7.
3. Toute Haute Partie contractante qui exerce ce droit de dérogation tient le Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe pleinement informé des mesures prises et des motifs qui les ont inspirées. Elle doit également informer le Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe de la date à laquelle ces mesures ont cessé d'être en vigueur et les dispositions de la Convention reçoivent de nouveau pleine application.
Article 16 - Restrictions à l'activité politique des étrangers
Aucune des dispositions des articles 10, 11 et 14 ne peut être considérée comme interdisant aux Hautes Parties contractantes d'imposer des restrictions à l'activité politique des étrangers.
Article 17 - Interdiction de l'abus de droit
Aucune des dispositions de la présente Convention ne peut être interprétée comme impliquant pour un Etat, un groupement ou un individu, un droit quelconque de se livrer à une activité ou d'accomplir un acte visant à la destruction des droits ou libertés reconnus dans la présente Convention ou à des limitations plus amples de ces droits et libertés que celles prévues à ladite Convention.
Article 18 - Limitation de l'usage des restrictions aux droits
Les restrictions qui, aux termes de la présente Convention, sont apportées auxdits droits et libertés ne peuvent être appliquées que dans le but pour lequel elles ont été prévues.
TITRE II - COUR EUROPÉENNE DES DROITS DE L'HOMME
Article 19 - Institution de la Cour
Afin d'assurer le respect des engagements résultant pour les Hautes Parties contractantes de la présente Convention et de ses protocoles, il est institué une Cour européenne des Droits de l'Homme, ci-dessous nommée « la Cour ». Elle fonctionne de façon permanente.
Article 20 - Nombre de juges
La Cour se compose d'un nombre de juges égal à celui des Hautes Parties contractantes.
Article 21 - Conditions d'exercice des fonctions
1. Les juges doivent jouir de la plus haute considération  morale et réunir les conditions requises pour l'exercice de  hautes fonctions judiciaires ou être des jurisconsultes  possédant une compétence notoire.
2. Les candidats doivent être âgés de moins de 65 ans à la  date à laquelle la liste de trois candidats est attendue par  l'Assemblée parlementaire, en vertu de l'article 22.
3. Les juges siègent à la Cour à titre individuel.
4. Pendant la durée de leur mandat, les juges ne peuvent  exercer aucune activité incompatible avec les exigences  d'indépendance, d'impartialité ou de disponibilité requise  par une activité exercée à plein temps ; toute question  soulevée en application de ce paragraphe est tranchée par la  Cour.
Article 22 - Election des juges
Les juges sont élus par l'Assemblée parlementaire au titre de chaque Haute Partie contractante, à la majorité des voix exprimées, sur une liste de trois candidats présentés par la Haute Partie contractante.
Article 23 - Durée du mandat et révocation
1. Les juges sont élus pour une durée de neuf ans. Ils ne  sont pas rééligibles.
2. Les juges restent en fonction jusqu'à leur remplacement.  Ils continuent toutefois de connaître des affaires dont ils  sont déjà saisis.
3. Un juge ne peut être relevé de ses fonctions que si les  autres juges décident, à la majorité des deux tiers, que ce  juge a cessé de répondre aux conditions requises.
Article 24 - Greffe et rapporteurs
1. La Cour dispose d'un greffe dont les tâches et l'organisation sont fixées par le règlement de la Cour.
2. Lorsqu'elle siège en formation de juge unique, la Cour est assistée de rapporteurs qui exercent leurs fonctions sous l'autorité du président de la Cour. Ils font partie du greffe de la Cour.
Article 25 - Assemblée plénière
La Cour réunie en Assemblée plénière
a) élit, pour une durée de trois ans, son président et un ou deux vice-présidents ; ils sont rééligibles ;
b) constitue des Chambres pour une période déterminée ;
c) élit les présidents des Chambres de la Cour, qui sont rééligibles ;
d) adopte le règlement de la Cour ;
e) élit le greffier et un ou plusieurs greffiers adjoints ;
f) fait toute demande au titre de l'article 26, paragraphe 2.
Article 26 - Formations de juge unique, comités, Chambres et Grande Chambre
1. Pour l'examen des affaires portées devant elle, la Cour siège en formations de juge unique, en comités de trois juges, en Chambres de sept juges et en une Grande Chambre de dix-sept juges. Les Chambres de la Cour constituent les comités pour une période déterminée.
2. A la demande de l'Assemblée plénière de la Cour, le Comité des Ministres peut, par une décision unanime et pour une période déterminée, réduire à cinq le nombre de juges des Chambres.
3. Un juge siégeant en tant que juge unique n'examine aucune requête introduite contre la Haute Partie contractante au titre de laquelle ce juge a été élu.
4. Le juge élu au titre d'une Haute Partie contractante partie au litige est membre de droit de la Chambre et de la Grande Chambre. En cas d'absence de ce juge, ou lorsqu'il n'est pas en mesure de siéger, une personne choisie par le président de la Cour sur une liste soumise au préalable par cette Partie siège en qualité de juge.
5. Font aussi partie de la Grande Chambre, le président de la Cour, les vice-présidents, les présidents des Chambres et d'autres juges désignés conformément au règlement de la Cour.
Quand l'affaire est déférée à la Grande Chambre en vertu de l'article 43, aucun juge de la Chambre qui a rendu l'arrêt ne peut y siéger, à l'exception du président de la Chambre et du juge ayant siégé au titre de la Haute Partie contractante intéressée.
Article 27 - Compétence des juges uniques
1. Un juge unique peut déclarer une requête introduite en vertu de l'article 34 irrecevable ou la rayer du rôle lorsqu'une telle décision peut être prise sans examen complémentaire.
2. La décision est définitive.
3. Si le juge unique ne déclare pas une requête irrecevable ou ne la raye pas du rôle, ce juge la transmet à un comité ou à une Chambre pour examen complémentaire.
Article 28 - Compétence des comités
1. Un comité saisi d'une requête individuelle introduite en vertu de l'article 34 peut, par vote unanime,
a) la déclarer irrecevable ou la rayer du rôle lorsqu'une telle décision peut être prise sans examen complémentaire ; ou
b) la déclarer recevable et rendre conjointement un arrêt sur le fond lorsque la question relative à l'interprétation ou à l'application de la Convention ou de ses Protocoles qui est à l'origine de l'affaire fait l'objet d'une jurisprudence bien établie de la Cour.
2. Les décisions et arrêts prévus au paragraphe 1 sont définitifs.
3. Si le juge élu au titre de la Haute Partie contractante partie au litige n'est pas membre du comité, ce dernier peut, à tout moment de la procédure, l'inviter à siéger en son sein en lieu et place de l'un de ses membres, en prenant en compte tous facteurs pertinents, y compris la question de savoir si cette Partie a contesté l'application de la procédure du paragraphe 1.b.
Article 29 - Décisions des Chambres sur la recevabilité et le fond
1. Si aucune décision n'a été prise en vertu des articles 27 ou 28, ni aucun arrêt rendu en vertu de l'article 28, une Chambre se prononce sur la recevabilité et le fond des requêtes individuelles introduites en vertu de l'article 34. La décision sur la recevabilité peut être prise de façon séparée.
2. Une Chambre se prononce sur la recevabilité et le fond des requêtes étatiques introduites en vertu de l'article 33. Sauf décision contraire de la Cour dans des cas exceptionnels, la décision sur la recevabilité est prise séparément.
Article 30 - Dessaisissement en faveur de la Grande Chambre
Si l'affaire pendante devant une Chambre soulève une question  grave relative à l'interprétation de la Convention ou de ses  protocoles, ou si la solution d'une question peut conduire à  une contradiction avec un arrêt rendu antérieurement par la  Cour, la Chambre peut, tant qu'elle n'a pas rendu son arrêt,  se dessaisir au profit de la Grande Chambre.
Article 31 - Attributions de la Grande Chambre
La Grande Chambre
a) se prononce sur les requêtes introduites en vertu de l'article 33 ou de l'article 34 lorsque l'affaire lui a été déférée par la Chambre en vertu de l'article 30 ou lorsque l'affaire lui a été déférée en vertu de l'article 43 ;
b) se prononce sur les questions dont la Cour est saisie par le Comité des Ministres en vertu de l'article 46, paragraphe 4 ;
et
c) examine les demandes d'avis consultatifs introduites en vertu de l'article 47.
Article 32 - Compétence de la Cour
1. La compétence de la Cour s'étend à toutes les questions concernant l'interprétation et l'application de la Convention et de ses protocoles qui lui seront soumises dans les conditions prévues par les articles 33, 34, 46 et 47.
2. En cas de contestation sur le point de savoir si la Cour est compétente, la Cour décide.
Article 33 - Affaires interétatiques
Toute Haute Partie contractante peut saisir la Cour de tout manquement aux dispositions de la Convention et de ses protocoles qu'elle croira pouvoir être imputé à une autre Haute Partie contractante.
Article 34 - Requêtes individuelles
La Cour peut être saisie d'une requête par toute personne physique, toute organisation non gouvernementale ou tout groupe de particuliers qui se prétend victime d'une violation par l'une des Hautes Parties contractantes des droits reconnus dans la Convention ou ses protocoles. Les Hautes Parties contractantes s'engagent à n'entraver par aucune mesure l'exercice efficace de ce droit.
Article 35 - Conditions de recevabilité
1. La Cour ne peut être saisie qu'après l'épuisement des  voies de recours internes, tel qu'il est entendu selon les  principes de droit international généralement reconnus, et  dans un délai de quatre mois à partir de la date de la  décision interne définitive.
2. La Cour ne retient aucune requête individuelle introduite  en application de l'article 34, lorsque
a) elle est anonyme ; ou
b) elle est essentiellement la même qu'une requête  précédemment examinée par la Cour ou déjà soumise à une autre  instance internationale d'enquête ou de règlement, et si elle  ne contient pas de faits nouveaux.
3. La Cour déclare irrecevable toute requête individuelle  introduite en application de l'article 34 lorsqu'elle estime
a) que la requête est incompatible avec les dispositions de  la Convention ou de ses Protocoles, manifestement mal fondée  ou abusive ; ou
b) que le requérant n'a subi aucun préjudice important, sauf  si le respect des droits de l'homme garantis par la  Convention et ses Protocoles exige un examen de la requête au  fond.
4. La Cour rejette toute requête qu'elle considère comme  irrecevable par application du présent article. Elle peut  procéder ainsi à tout stade de la procédure.
Article 36 - Tierce intervention
1. Dans toute affaire devant une Chambre ou la Grande Chambre, une Haute Partie contractante dont un ressortissant est requérant a le droit de présenter des observations écrites et de prendre part aux audiences.
2. Dans l'intérêt d'une bonne administration de la justice, le président de la Cour peut inviter toute Haute Partie contractante qui n'est pas partie à l'instance ou toute personne intéressée autre que le requérant à présenter des observations écrites ou à prendre part aux audiences.
3. Dans toute affaire devant une Chambre ou la Grande Chambre, le Commissaire aux Droits de l'Homme du Conseil de l'Europe peut présenter des observations écrites et prendre part aux audiences.
Article 37 - Radiation
1. A tout moment de la procédure, la Cour peut décider de rayer une requête du rôle lorsque les circonstances permettent de conclure
a) que le requérant n'entend plus la maintenir ; ou
b) que le litige a été résolu ; ou
c) que, pour tout autre motif dont la Cour constate l'existence, il ne se justifie plus de poursuivre l'examen de la requête.
Toutefois, la Cour poursuit l'examen de la requête si le respect des droits de l'homme garantis par la Convention et ses protocoles l'exige.
2. La Cour peut décider la réinscription au rôle d'une requête lorsqu'elle estime que les circonstances le justifient.
Article 38 - Examen contradictoire de l'affaire
La Cour examine l'affaire de façon contradictoire avec les représentants des parties et, s'il y a lieu, procède à une enquête pour la conduite efficace de laquelle les Hautes Parties contractantes intéressées fourniront toutes facilités nécessaires
Article 39 - Règlements amiables
1. A tout moment de la procédure, la Cour peut se mettre à la disposition des intéressés en vue de parvenir à un règlement amiable de l'affaire s'inspirant du respect des droits de l'homme tels que les reconnaissent la Convention et ses Protocoles.
2. La procédure décrite au paragraphe 1 est confidentielle.
3. En cas de règlement amiable, la Cour raye l'affaire du rôle par une décision qui se limite à un bref exposé des faits et de la solution adoptée.
4. Cette décision est transmise au Comité des Ministres qui surveille l'exécution des termes du règlement amiable tels qu'ils figurent dans la décision.
Article 40 - Audience publique et accès aux documents
1. L'audience est publique à moins que la Cour n'en décide autrement en raison de circonstances exceptionnelles.
2. Les documents déposés au greffe sont accessibles au public à moins que le président de la Cour n'en décide autrement.
Article 41 - Satisfaction équitable
Si la Cour déclare qu'il y a eu violation de la Convention ou de ses protocoles, et si le droit interne de la Haute Partie contractante ne permet d'effacer qu'imparfaitement les conséquences de cette violation, la Cour accorde à la partie lésée, s'il y a lieu, une satisfaction équitable.
Article 42 - Arrêts des Chambres
Les arrêts des Chambres deviennent définitifs conformément aux dispositions de l'article 44, paragraphe 2.
Article 43 - Renvoi devant la Grande Chambre
1. Dans un délai de trois mois à compter de la date de l'arrêt d'une Chambre, toute partie à l'affaire peut, dans des cas exceptionnels, demander le renvoi de l'affaire devant la Grande Chambre.
2. Un collège de cinq juges de la Grande Chambre accepte la demande si l'affaire soulève une question grave relative à l'interprétation ou à l'application de la Convention ou de ses protocoles, ou encore une question grave de caractère général.
3. Si le collège accepte la demande, la Grande Chambre se prononce sur l'affaire par un arrêt.
Article 44 - Arrêts définitifs
1. L'arrêt de la Grande Chambre est définitif.
2. L'arrêt d'une Chambre devient définitif
a) lorsque les parties déclarent qu'elles ne demanderont pas le renvoi de l'affaire devant la Grande Chambre ; ou
b) trois mois après la date de l'arrêt, si le renvoi de l'affaire devant la Grande Chambre n'a pas été demandé ; ou
c) lorsque le collège de la Grande Chambre rejette la demande de renvoi formulée en application de l'article 43.
3. L'arrêt définitif est publié.
Article 45 - Motivation des arrêts et décisions
1. Les arrêts, ainsi que les décisions déclarant des requêtes recevables ou irrecevables, sont motivés.
2. Si l'arrêt n'exprime pas en tout ou en partie l'opinion unanime des juges, tout juge a le droit d'y joindre l'exposé de son opinion séparée.
Article 46 - Force obligatoire et exécution des arrêts
1. Les Hautes Parties contractantes s'engagent à se conformer aux arrêts définitifs de la Cour dans les litiges auxquels elles sont parties.
2. L'arrêt définitif de la Cour est transmis au Comité des Ministres qui en surveille l'exécution.
3. Lorsque le Comité des Ministres estime que la surveillance de l'exécution d'un arrêt définitif est entravée par une difficulté d'interprétation de cet arrêt, il peut saisir la Cour afin qu'elle se prononce sur cette question d'interprétation. La décision de saisir la Cour est prise par un vote à la majorité des deux tiers des représentants ayant le droit de siéger au Comité.
4. Lorsque le Comité des Ministres estime qu'une Haute Partie contractante refuse de se conformer à un arrêt définitif dans un litige auquel elle est partie, il peut, après avoir mis en demeure cette Partie et par décision prise par un vote à la majorité des deux tiers des représentants ayant le droit de siéger au Comité, saisir la Cour de la question du respect par cette Partie de son obligation au regard du paragraphe 1.
5. Si la Cour constate une violation du paragraphe 1, elle renvoie l'affaire au Comité des Ministres afin qu'il examine les mesures à prendre. Si la Cour constate qu'il n'y a pas eu violation du paragraphe 1, elle renvoie l'affaire au Comité des Ministres, qui décide de clore son examen.
Article 47 - Avis consultatifs
1. La Cour peut, à la demande du Comité des Ministres, donner des avis consultatifs sur des questions juridiques concernant l'interprétation de la Convention et de ses protocoles.
2. Ces avis ne peuvent porter ni sur les questions ayant trait au contenu ou à l'étendue des droits et libertés définis au titre I de la Convention et dans les protocoles ni sur les autres questions dont la Cour ou le Comité des Ministres pourraient avoir à connaître par suite de l'introduction d'un recours prévu par la Convention.
3. La décision du Comité des Ministres de demander un avis à la Cour est prise par un vote à la majorité des représentants ayant le droit de siéger au Comité.
Article 48 - Compétence consultative de la Cour
La Cour décide si la demande d'avis consultatif présentée par le Comité des Ministres relève de sa compétence telle que définie par l'article 47.
Article 49 - Motivation des avis consultatifs
1. L'avis de la Cour est motivé.
2. Si l'avis n'exprime pas en tout ou en partie l'opinion unanime des juges, tout juge a le droit d'y joindre l'exposé de son opinion séparée.
3. L'avis de la Cour est transmis au Comité des Ministres.
Article 50 - Frais de fonctionnement de la Cour
Les frais de fonctionnement de la Cour sont à la charge du Conseil de l'Europe.
Article 51 - Privilèges et immunités des juges
Les juges jouissent, pendant l'exercice de leurs fonctions, des privilèges et immunités prévus à l'article 40 du Statut du Conseil de l'Europe et dans les accords conclus au titre de cet article.
TITRE III - DISPOSITIONS DIVERSES
Article 52 - Enquêtes du Secrétaire Général
Toute Haute Partie contractante fournira sur demande du Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe les explications requises sur la manière dont son droit interne assure l'application effective de toutes les dispositions de cette Convention.
Article 53 - Sauvegarde des droits de l'homme reconnus
Aucune des dispositions de la présente Convention ne sera interprétée comme limitant ou portant atteinte aux droits de l'homme et aux libertés fondamentales qui pourraient être reconnus conformément aux lois de toute Partie contractante ou à toute autre Convention à laquelle cette Partie contractante est partie.
Article 54 - Pouvoirs du Comité des Ministres
Aucune disposition de la présente Convention ne porte atteinte aux pouvoirs conférés au Comité des Ministres par le Statut du Conseil de l'Europe.
Article 55 - Renonciation à d'autres modes de règlement des différends
Les Hautes Parties contractantes renoncent réciproquement, sauf compromis spécial, à se prévaloir des traités, conventions ou déclarations existant entre elles, en vue de soumettre, par voie de requête, un différend né de l'interprétation ou de l'application de la présente Convention à un mode de règlement autre que ceux prévus par ladite Convention.
Article 56 - Application territoriale
1. Tout Etat peut, au moment de la ratification ou à tout autre moment par la suite, déclarer, par notification adressée au Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe, que la présente Convention s'appliquera, sous réserve du paragraphe 4 du présent article, à tous les territoires ou à l'un quelconque des territoires dont il assure les relations internationales.
2. La Convention s'appliquera au territoire ou aux territoires désignés dans la notification à partir du trentième jour qui suivra la date à laquelle le Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe aura reçu cette notification.
3. Dans lesdits territoires les dispositions de la présente Convention seront appliquées en tenant compte des nécessités locales.
4. Tout Etat qui a fait une déclaration conformément au premier paragraphe de cet article, peut, à tout moment par la suite, déclarer relativement à un ou plusieurs des territoires visés dans cette déclaration qu'il accepte la compétence de la Cour pour connaître des requêtes de personnes physiques, d'organisations non gouvernementales ou de groupes de particuliers, comme le prévoit l'article 34 de la Convention.
Article 57 - Réserves
1. Tout Etat peut, au moment de la signature de la présente Convention ou du dépôt de son instrument de ratification, formuler une réserve au sujet d'une disposition particulière de la Convention, dans la mesure où une loi alors en vigueur sur son territoire n'est pas conforme à cette disposition. Les réserves de caractère général ne sont pas autorisées aux termes du présent article.
2. Toute réserve émise conformément au présent article comporte un bref exposé de la loi en cause.
Article 58 - Dénonciation
1. Une Haute Partie contractante ne peut dénoncer la présente Convention qu'après l'expiration d'un délai de cinq ans à partir de la date d'entrée en vigueur de la Convention à son égard et moyennant un préavis de six mois, donné par une notification adressée au Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe, qui en informe les autres Parties contractantes.
2. Cette dénonciation ne peut avoir pour effet de délier la Haute Partie contractante intéressée des obligations contenues dans la présente Convention en ce qui concerne tout fait qui, pouvant constituer une violation de ces obligations, aurait été accompli par elle antérieurement à la date à laquelle la dénonciation produit effet.
3. Sous la même réserve cesserait d'être Partie à la présente Convention toute Partie contractante qui cesserait d'être membre du Conseil de l'Europe.
4. La Convention peut être dénoncée conformément aux dispositions des paragraphes précédents en ce qui concerne tout territoire auquel elle a été déclarée applicable aux termes de l'article 56.
Article 59 - Signature et ratification
1. La présente Convention est ouverte à la signature des membres du Conseil de l'Europe. Elle sera ratifiée. Les ratifications seront déposées près le Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe.
2. L'Union européenne peut adhérer à la présente Convention.
3. La présente Convention entrera en vigueur après le dépôt de dix instruments de ratification.
4. Pour tout signataire qui la ratifiera ultérieurement, la Convention entrera en vigueur dès le dépôt de l'instrument de ratification.
5. Le Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe notifiera à tous les membres du Conseil de l'Europe l'entrée en vigueur de la Convention, les noms des Hautes Parties contractantes qui l'auront ratifiée, ainsi que le dépôt de tout instrument de ratification intervenu ultérieurement.
Fait à Rome, le 4 novembre 1950, en français et en anglais, les deux textes faisant également foi, en un seul exemplaire qui sera déposé dans les archives du Conseil de l'Europe. Le Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe en communiquera des copies certifiées conformes à tous les signataires.
Protocole additionnel a la Convention de Sauvegarde des Droits de l'Homme et des Libertes fondamentales
Les gouvernements signataires, membres du Conseil de l'Europe,
Résolus à prendre des mesures propres à assurer la garantie collective de droits et libertés autres que ceux qui figurent déjà dans le titre I de la Convention de sauvegarde des Droits de l'Homme et des Libertés fondamentales, signée à Rome le 4 novembre 1950 (ci-après dénommée "la Convention"),
Sont convenus de ce qui suit:
Article 1 - Protection de la propriété
Toute personne physique ou morale a droit au respect de ses biens. Nul ne peut être privé de sa propriété que pour cause d'utilité publique et dans les conditions prévues par la loi et les principes généraux du droit international.
Les dispositions précédentes ne portent pas atteinte au droit que possèdent les Etats de mettre en vigueur les lois qu'ils jugent nécessaires pour réglementer l'usage des biens conformément à l'intérêt général ou pour assurer le paiement des impôts ou d'autres contributions ou des amendes.
Article 2 - Droit à l'instruction
Nul ne peut se voir refuser le droit à l'instruction. L'Etat, dans l'exercice des fonctions qu'il assumera dans le domaine de l'éducation et de l'enseignement, respectera le droit des parents d'assurer cette éducation et cet enseignement conformément à leurs convictions religieuses et philosophiques.
Article 3 - Droit à des élections libres
Les Hautes Parties contractantes s'engagent à organiser, à des intervalles raisonnables, des élections libres au scrutin secret, dans les conditions qui assurent la libre expression de l'opinion du peuple sur le choix du corps législatif.
Article 4 - Application territoriale
Toute Haute Partie contractante peut, au moment de la signature ou de la ratification du présent protocole ou à tout moment par la suite, communiquer au Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe une déclaration indiquant la mesure dans laquelle elle s'engage à ce que les dispositions du présent protocole s'appliquent à tels territoires qui sont désignés dans ladite déclaration et dont elle assure les relations internationales.
Toute Haute Partie contractante qui a communiqué une déclaration en vertu du paragraphe précédent peut, de temps à autre, communiquer une nouvelle déclaration modifiant les termes de toute déclaration antérieure ou mettant fin à l'application des dispositions du présent protocole sur un territoire quelconque.
Une déclaration faite conformément au présent article sera considérée comme ayant été faite conformément au paragraphe 1 de l'article 56 de la Convention.
Article 5 - Relations avec la Convention
Les Hautes Parties contractantes considéreront les articles 1, 2, 3 et 4 de ce protocole comme des articles additionnels à la Convention et toutes les dispositions de la Convention s'appliqueront en conséquence.
Article 6 - Signature et ratification
Le présent protocole est ouvert à la signature des membres du Conseil de l'Europe, signataires de la Convention; il sera ratifié en même temps que la Convention ou après la ratification de celleci. Il entrera en vigueur après le dépôt de dix instruments de ratification. Pour tout signataire qui le ratifiera ultérieurement, le protocole entrera en vigueur dès le dépôt de l'instrument de ratification.
Les instruments de ratification seront déposés près le Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe qui notifiera à tous les membres les noms de ceux qui l'auront ratifié.
Fait à Paris, le 20 mars 1952, en français et en anglais, les deux textes faisant également foi, en un seul exemplaire qui sera déposé dans les archives du Conseil de l'Europe. Le Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe en communiquera copie certifiée conforme à chacun des gouvernements signataires.
Protocole no 4 à la Convention de Sauvegarde des Droits de l'Homme et des Libertés fondamentales reconnaissant certains droits et libertés autres que ceux figurant déjà dans la Convention et dans le premier Protocole additionnel à la Convention
Les gouvernements signataires, membres du Conseil de l'Europe,
Résolus à prendre des mesures propres à assurer la garantie collective de droits et libertés autres que ceux qui figurent déjà dans le titre I de la Convention de sauvegarde des Droits de l'Homme et des Libertés fondamentales, signée à Rome le 4 novembre 1950 (ci-après dénommée "la Convention") et dans les articles 1 à 3 du premier Protocole additionnel à la Convention, signé à Paris le 20 mars 1952,
Sont convenus de ce qui suit:
Article 1 - Interdiction de l'emprisonnement pour dette
Nul ne peut être privé de sa liberté pour la seule raison qu'il n'est pas en mesure d'exécuter une obligation contractuelle.
Article 2 - Liberté de circulation
1. Quiconque se trouve régulièrement sur le territoire d'un Etat a le droit d'y circuler librement et d'y choisir librement sa résidence.
2. Toute personne est libre de quitter n'importe quel pays, y compris le sien.
3. L'exercice de ces droits ne peut faire l'objet d'autres restrictions que celles qui, prévues par la loi, constituent des mesures nécessaires, dans une société démocratique, à la sécurité nationale, à la sûreté publique, au maintien de l'ordre public, à la prévention des infractions pénales, à la protection de la santé ou de la morale, ou à la protection des droits et libertés d'autrui.
4. Les droits reconnus au paragraphe 1 peuvent également, dans certaines zones déterminées, faire l'objet de restrictions qui, prévues par la loi, sont justifiées par l'intérêt public dans une société démocratique.
Article 3 - Interdiction de l'expulsion des nationaux
1. Nul ne peut être expulsé, par voie de mesure individuelle ou collective, du territoire de l'Etat dont il est le ressortissant.
2. Nul ne peut être privé du droit d'entrer sur le territoire de l'Etat dont il est le ressortissant.
Article 4 - Interdiction des expulsions collectives d'étrangers
Les expulsions collectives d'étrangers sont interdites.
Article 5 - Application territoriale
1. Toute Haute Partie contractante peut, au moment de la signature ou de la ratification du présent Protocole ou à tout moment par la suite, communiquer au Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe une déclaration indiquant la mesure dans laquelle elle s'engage à ce que les dispositions du présent Protocole s'appliquent à tels territoires qui sont désignés dans ladite déclaration et dont elle assure les relations internationales.
2. Toute Haute Partie contractante qui a communiqué une déclaration en vertu du paragraphe précédent peut, de temps à autre, communiquer une nouvelle déclaration modifiant les termes de toute déclaration antérieure ou mettant fin à l'application des dispositions du présent Protocole sur un territoire quelconque.
3. Une déclaration faite conformément au présent article sera considérée comme ayant été faite conformément au paragraphe 1 de l'article 56 de la Convention.
4. Le territoire de tout Etat auquel le présent Protocole s'applique en vertu de sa ratification ou de son acceptation par ledit Etat, et chacun des territoires aux quels le Protocole s'app- lique en vertu d'une déclaration souscrite par ledit Etat conformément au présent article, seront considérés comme des territoires distincts aux fins des références au territoire d'un Etat faites par les articles 2 et 3.
5. Tout Etat qui a fait une déclaration conformément au paragraphe 1 ou 2 du présent article peut, à tout moment par la suite, déclarer relativement à un ou plusieurs des territoires visés dans cette déclaration qu'il accepte la compétence de la Cour pour connaître des requêtes de personnes physiques, d'organisations non gouvernementales ou de groupes de particuliers, comme le prévoit l'article 34 de la Convention, au titre des articles 1 à 4 du présent Protocole ou de certains d'entre eux.
Article 6 - Relations avec la Convention
Les Hautes Parties contractantes considéreront les articles 1 à 5 de ce Protocole comme des articles additionnels à la Convention et toutes les dispositions de la Convention s'appliqueront en conséquence.
Article 7 - Signature et ratification
1. Le présent Protocole est ouvert à la signature des membres du Conseil de l'Europe, signataires de la Convention; il sera ratifié en même temps que la Convention ou après la ratification de celle-ci. Il entrera en vigueur après le dépôt de cinq instruments de ratification. Pour tout signataire qui le ratifiera ultérieurement, le Protocole entrera en vigueur dès le dépôt de l'instrument de ratification.
2. Les instruments de ratification seront déposés près le Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe qui notifiera à tous les membres les noms de ceux qui l'auront ratifié.
En foi de quoi, les soussignés, dûment autorisés à cet effet, ont signé le présent Protocole.
Fait à Strasbourg, le 16 septembre 1963, en français et en anglais, les deux textes faisant également foi, en un seul exemplaire qui sera déposé dans les archives du Conseil de l'Europe. Le Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe en communiquera copie certifiée conforme à chacun des Etas signataires.
Protocole no 6 à la Convention de Sauvegarde des Droits de l'Homme et des Libertés fondamentales, concernant l'abolition de la peine de mort
Les Etats membes du Conseil de l'Europe, signataires du présent Protocole à la Convention de sauvegarde des Droits de l'Homme et des Libertés fondamentales, signée à Rome le 4 novembre 1950
(ci-après dénommée "la Convention"),
Considérant que les développements intervenus dans plusieurs Etats membres du Conseil de l'Europe expriment une tendance générale en faveur de l'abolition de la peine de mort,
Sont convenus de ce qui suit:
Article 1 - Abolition de la peine de mort
La peine de mort est abolie. Nul ne peut être condamné à une telle peine ni exécuté.
Article 2 - Peine de mort en temps de guerre
Un Etat peut prévoir dans sa législation la peine de mort pour des actes commis en temps de guerre ou de danger imminent de guerre; une telle peine ne sera appliquée que dans les cas prévus par cette législation et conformément à ses dispositions. Cet Etat communiquera au Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe les dispositions afférentes de la législation en cause.
Article 3 - Interdiction de dérogations
Aucune dérogation n'est autorisée aux dispositions du présent Protocole au titre de l'article 15 de la Convention.
Article 4 - Interdiction de réserves
Aucune réserve n'est admise aux dispositions du présent Protocole en vertu de l'article 57 de la Convention.
Article 5 - Application territoriale
1. Tout Etat peut, au moment de la signature ou au moment du dépôt de son instrument de ratification, d'acceptation ou d'approbation, désigner le ou les territoires auxquels s'appli-
quera le présent Protocole.
2. Tout Etat peut, à tout autre moment par la suite, par une déclaration adressée au Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe, étendre l'application du présent Protocole à tout autre territoire désigné dans la déclaration. Le Protocole entrera en vigueur à l'égard de ce territoire le premier jour du mois qui suit la date de réception de la déclaration par le Secrétaire Général.
3. Toute déclaration faite en vertu des deux paragraphes précédents pourra être retirée, en ce qui concerne tout territoire désigné dans cette déclaration, par notification adressée au Secrétaire Général. Le retrait prendra effet le premier jour du mois qui suit la date de réception de la notification par le Secrétaire Général.
Article 6 - Relations avec la Convention
Les Etats Parties considèrent les articles 1 à 5 du présent Protocole comme des articles additionnels à la Convention et toutes les dispositions de la Convention s'appliquent en conséquence.
Article 7 - Signature et ratification
Le présent Protocole est ouvert à la signature des Etats membres du Conseil de l'Europe, signataires de la Convention.
Il sera soumis à ratification, acceptation ou approbation. Un Etat membre du Conseil de l'Europe ne pourra ratifier, accepter ou approuver le présent Protocole sans avoir simultanément ou antérieurement ratifié la Convention. Les instruments de ratification, d'acceptation ou d'approbation seront déposés près le Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe.
Article 8 - Entrée en vigueur
1. Le présent Protocole entrera en vigueur le premier jour du mois qui suit la date à laquelle cinq Etats membres du Conseil de l'Europe auront exprimé leur consentement à être liés
par le Protocole conformément aux dispositions de l'article 7.
2. Pour tout Etat membre qui exprimera ultérieurement son consentement à être lié par le Protocole, celui-ci entrera en vigueur le premier jour du mois qui suit la date du dépôt de l'instrument de ratification, d'acceptation ou d'approbation.
Article 9 - Fonctions du dépositaire
Le Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe notifiera aux Etas membres du Conseil:
a) toute signature;
b) le dépôt de tout instrument de ratification, d'acceptation ou d'approbation;
c) toute date d'entrée en vigueur du présent Protocole conformément à ses articles 5 et 8;
d) tout autre acte, notification ou communication ayant trait au présent Protocole.
En foi de quoi, les soussignés, dûment autorisés à cet effet, ont signé le présent Protocole.
Fait à Strasbourg, le 28 avril 1983, en français et en anglais, les deux textes faisant également foi, en un seul exemplaire, qui sera déposé dans les archives du Conseil de l'Europe. Le Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe en communiquera copie certifiée conforme à chacun des Etats membres du Conseil de l'Europe.
Protocole no 7 à la Convention de Sauvegarde des Droits de l'Homme et des Libertés fondamentales
Les Etats membres du Conseil de l'Europe, signataires du présent Protocole,
Résolus à prendre de nouvelles mesures propres à assurer la garantie collective de certains droits et libertés par la Convention de Sauvegarde des Droits de l'Homme et des Libertés fondamentales, signée à Rome le 4 novembre 1950 (ci-après dénommée "la Convention"),
Sont convenus de ce qui suit:
Article 1 - Garanties procédurales en cas d'expulsion d'étrangers
1. Un étranger résidant régulièrement sur le territoire d'un Etat ne peut en être expulsé qu'en exécution d'une décision prise conformément à la loi et doit pouvoir:
a) faire valoir les raisons qui militent contre son expulsion,
b) faire examiner son cas, et
c) se faire représenter à ces fins devant l'autorité compétente ou une ou plusieurs personnes désignées par cette autorité.
2. Un étranger peut être expulsé avant l'exercice des droits énumérés au paragraphe 1.a, b et c de cet article lorsque cette expulsion est nécessaire dans l'intérêt de l'ordre public ou est basée sur des motifs de sécurité nationale.
Article 2 - Droit à un double degré de juridiction en matière pénale
1. Toute personne déclarée coupable d'une infraction pénale par un tribunal a le droit de faire examiner par une juridiction supérieure la déclaration de culpabilité ou la condamnation.
L'exercice de ce droit, y compris les motifs pour lesquels il peut être exercé, sont régis par la loi.
2. Ce droit peut faire l'objet d'exceptions pour des infractions mineures telles qu'elles sont définies par la loi ou lorsque l'intéressé a été jugé en première instance par la plus haute juridiction ou a été déclaré coupable et condamné à la suite d'un recours contre son acquittement.
Article 3 - Droit d'indemnisation en cas d'erreur judiciaire
Lorsqu'une condamnation pénale définitive est ultérieurement annulée, ou lorsque la grâce est accordée, parce qu'un fait nouveau ou nouvellement révélé prouve qu'il s'est produit une erreur judiciaire, la personne qui a subi une peine en raison de cette condamnation est indemnisée, conformément à la loi ou à l'usage en vigueur dans l'Etat concerné, à moins qu'il ne soit prouvé que la non-révélation en temps utile du fait inconnu lui est imputable en tout ou en partie.
Article 4 - Droit à ne pas être jugé ou puni deux fois
1. Nul ne peut être poursuivi ou puni pénalement par les juridictions du même Etat en raison d'une infraction pour laquelle il a déjà été acquitté ou condamné par un jugement définitif conformément à la loi et à la procédure pénale de cet Etat.
2. Les dispositions du paragraphe précédent n'empêchent pas la réouverture du procès, conformément à la loi et à la procédure pénale de l'Etat concerné, si des faits nouveaux ou nouvellement révélés ou un vice fondamental dans la procédure précédente sont de nature à affecter le jugement intervenu.
3. Aucune dérogation n'est autorisée au présent article au titre de l'article 15 de la Convention.
Article 5 - Egalité entre époux
Les époux jouissent de l'égalité de droits et de responsabilités de caractère civil entre eux et dans leurs relations avec leurs enfants au regard du mariage, durant le mariage et lors de sa dissolution. Le présent article n'empêche pas les Etats de prendre les mesures nécessaires dans l'intérêt des enfants.
Article 6 - Application territoriale
1. Tout Etat peut, au moment de la signature ou au moment du dépôt de son instrument de ratification, d'acceptation ou d'approbation, désigner le ou les territoires auxquels s'appli-
quera le présent Protocole, en indiquant la mesure dans laquelle il s'engage à ce que les dispositions du présent Protocole s'appliquent à ce ou ces territoires.
2. Tout Etat peut, à tout autre moment par la suite, par une déclaration adressée au Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe, étendre l'application du présent Protocole à tout autre territoire désigné dans la déclaration. Le Protocole entrera en vigueur à l'égard de ce territoire le premier jour du mois qui suit l'expiration d'une période de deux mois après la date de réception de la déclaration par le Secrétaire Général.
3. Toute déclaration faite en vertu des deux paragraphes précédents pourra être retirée ou modifiée en ce qui concerne tout territoire désigné dans cette déclaration, par notification adressée au Secrétaire Général. Le retrait ou la modification prendra effet le premier jour du mois qui suit l'expiration d'une période de deux mois après la date de réception de la notification par le Secrétaire Général.
4. Une déclaration faite conformément au présent article sera considérée comme ayant été faite conformément au paragraphe 1 de l'article 56 de la Convention.
5. Le territoire de tout Etat auquel le présent Protocole s'applique en vertu de sa ratification, de son acceptation ou de son approbation par ledit Etat, et chacun des territoires auxquels le Protocole s'applique en vertu d'une déclaration souscrite par le dit Etat conformément au présent article, peuvent être considérés comme des territoires distincts aux fins de la référence au territoire d'un Etat faite par l'article 1.
6. Tout Etat ayant fait une déclaration conformément au paragraphe 1 ou 2 du présent article peut, à tout moment par la suite, déclarer relativement à un ou plusieurs des territoires visés dans cette déclaration qu'il accepte la compétence de la Cour pour connaître des requêtes de personnes physiques, d'organisations non gouvernementales ou de groupes de particuliers, comme le prévoit l'article 34 de la Convention, au titre des articles 1 à 5 du présent Protocole.
Article 7 - Relations avec la Convention
Les Etats Parties considèrent les articles 1 à 6 du présent Protocole comme des articles additionnels à la Convention et toutes les dispositions de la Convention s'appliquent en conséquence.
Article 8 - Signature et ratification
Le présent Protocole est ouvert à la signature des Etats membres du Conseil de l'Europe qui ont signé la Convention. Il sera soumis à ratification, acceptation ou approbation. Un Etat membre du Conseil de l'Europe ne peut ratifier, accepter ou approuver le présent Protocole sans avoir simultanément ou antérieurement ratifié la Convention. Les instruments de ratification, d'acceptation ou d'approbation seront déposés près le Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe.
Article 9 - Entrée en vigueur
1. Le présent Protocole entrera en vigueur le premier jour du mois qui suit l'expiration d'une période de deux mois après la date à laquelle sept Etats membres du Conseil de l'Europe auront exprimé leur consentement à être liés par le Protocole conformément aux dispositions de l'article 8.
2. Pour tout Etat membre qui exprimera ultérieurement son consentement à être lié par le Protocole, celui-ci entrera en vigueur le premier jour du mois qui suit l'expiration d'une période de deux mois après la date du dépôt de l'instrument de ratification, d'acceptation ou d'approbation.
Article 10 - Fonctions du dépositaire
Le Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe notifiera à tous les Etats membres du Conseil de l'Europe:
a) toute signature;
b) le dépôt de tout instrument de ratification, d'acceptation ou d'approbation;
c) toute date d'entrée en vigueur du présent Protocole conformément à ses articles 6 et 9;
d) tout autre acte, notification ou déclaration ayant trait au présent Protocole.
En foi de quoi, les soussignés dûment autorisés à cet effet, ont signé le présent Protocole.
Fait à Strasbourg, le 22 novembre 1984, en français et en anglais, les deux textes faisant également foi, en un seul exemplaire, qui sera déposé dans les archives du Conseil de l'Europe. Le Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe en communiquera copie certifiée conforme à chacun des Etats membres du Conseil de l'Europe.
Protocole n  13 à la Convention de sauvegarde des Droits de l'Homme et des Libertés fondamentales, relatif à l'abolition de la peine de mort en toutes circonstances
Les Etats membres du Conseil de l'Europe, signataires du présent Protocole,
Convaincus que le droit de toute personne à la vie est une valeur fondamentale dans une société démocratique, et que l'abolition de la peine de mort est essentielle à la protection de ce droit et à la pleine reconnaissance de la dignité inhérente à tous les êtres humains ;
Souhaitant renforcer la protection du droit à la vie garanti par la Convention de sauvegarde des Droits de l'Homme et des Libertés Fondamentales signée à Rome le 4 novembre 1950 (ci-
après dénommée « la Convention ») ;
Notant que le Protocole n  6 à la Convention concernant l'abolition de la peine de mort, signé à Strasbourg le 28 avril 1983, n'exclut pas la peine de mort pour des actes commis en temps de guerre ou de danger imminent de guerre ;
Résolus à faire le pas ultime afin d'abolir la peine de mort en toutes circonstances,
Sont convenus de ce qui suit :
Article 1 - Abolition de la peine de mort
La peine de mort est abolie. Nul ne peut être condamné à une telle peine ni exécuté.
Article 2 - Interdiction de dérogations
Aucune dérogation n'est autorisée aux dispositions du présent Protocole au titre de l'article 15 de la Convention.
Article 3 - Interdiction de réserves
Aucune réserve n'est admise aux dispositions du présent Protocole au titre de l'article 57 de la Convention.
Article 4 - Application territoriale
1 Tout Etat peut, au moment de la signature ou au moment du dépôt de son instrument de ratification, d'acceptation ou d'approbation, désigner le ou les territoires auxquels s'appliquera le présent Protocole.
2 Tout Etat peut, à tout autre moment par la suite, par une déclaration adressée au Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe, étendre l'application du présent Protocole à tout autre territoire désigné dans la déclaration. Le Protocole entrera en vigueur à l'égard de ce territoire le premier jour du mois qui suit l'expiration d'une période de trois mois après la date de réception de la déclaration par le Secrétaire Général.
3 Toute déclaration faite en vertu des deux paragraphes précédents pourra être retirée ou modifiée, en ce qui concerne tout territoire désigné dans cette déclaration, par notification adressée au Secrétaire Général. Le retrait ou la modification prendra effet le premier jour du mois qui suit l'expiration d'une période de trois mois après la date de réception de la notification par le Secrétaire Général.
Article 5 - Relations avec la Convention
Les Etats Parties considèrent les articles 1 à 4 du présent Protocole comme des articles additionnels à la Convention, et toutes les dispositions de la Convention s'appliquent en conséquence.
Article 6 - Signature et ratification
Le présent Protocole est ouvert à la signature des Etats membres du Conseil de l'Europe qui ont signé la Convention. Il sera soumis à ratification, acceptation ou approbation. Un Etat membre du Conseil de l'Europe ne peut ratifier, accepter ou approuver le présent Protocole sans avoir simultanément ou antérieurement ratifié la Convention. Les instruments de ratification, d'acceptation ou d'approbation seront déposés près le Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe.
Article 7 - Entrée en vigueur
1 Le présent Protocole entrera en vigueur le premier jour du mois qui suit l'expiration d'une période de trois mois après la date à laquelle dix Etats membres du Conseil de l'Europe auront exprimé leur consentement à être liés par le présent Protocole conformément aux dispositions de son article 6.
2 Pour tout Etat membre qui exprimera ultérieurement son consentement à être lié par le présent Protocole, celui-ci entrera en vigueur le premier jour du mois qui suit l'expiration d'une période de trois mois après la date du dépôt de l'instrument de ratification, d'acceptation ou d'approbation.
Article 8 - Fonctions du dépositaire
Le Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe notifiera à tous les Etats membres du Conseil de l'Europe :
a toute signature ;
b le dépôt de tout instrument de ratification, d'acceptation ou d'approbation ;
c toute date d'entrée en vigueur du présent Protocole conformément à ses articles 4 et 7 ;
d tout autre acte, notification ou communication, ayant trait au présent Protocole.
En foi de quoi, les soussignés, dûment autorisés à cet effet, ont signé le présent Protocole.
Fait à Vilnius, le 3 mai 2002, en français et en anglais, les deux textes faisant également foi, en un seul exemplaire qui sera déposé dans les archives du Conseil de l'Europe. Le Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe en communiquera copie certifiée conforme à chacun des Etats membres du Conseil de l'Europe.
Lag (2005:816)
.
Convention de Sauvegarde des Droits de l'Homme et des  Libertés fondamentales
2.X.2013	Protocole n° 16 à la Convention de sauvegarde des  Droits de l'Homme et des Libertés fondamentales
Strasbourg,
2.X.2013
Préambule
Les Etats membres du Conseil de l'Europe et les autres Hautes  Parties contractantes à la Convention de sauvegarde des droits  de l'homme et des libertés fondamentales, signée à Rome le 
4 novembre 1950 (ci-après dénommée " la Convention "),  signataires du présent Protocole,
Vu les dispositions de la Convention, notamment l'article 19 
établissant la Cour européenne des droits de l'homme (ci-après  dénommée " la Cour ");
Considérant que l'extension de la compétence de la Cour pour  donner des avis consultatifs renforcera l'interaction entre la  Cour et les autorités nationales, et consolidera ainsi la mise  en ?uvre de la Convention, conformément au principe de  subsidiarité;
Vu l'Avis n° 285 (2013), adopté par l'Assemblée parlementaire  du Conseil de l'Europe le 28 juin 2013,
Sont convenus de ce qui suit:
Article 1
1. Les plus hautes juridictions d'une Haute Partie  contractante, telles que désignées conformément à  l'article 10, peuvent adresser à la Cour des demandes d'avis  consultatifs sur des questions de principe relatives à  l'interprétation ou à l'application des droits et libertés  définis par la Convention ou ses protocoles.
2. La juridiction qui procède à la demande ne peut  solliciter un avis consultatif que dans le cadre d'une affaire  pendante devant elle.
3. La juridiction qui procède à la demande motive sa  demande d'avis et produit les éléments pertinents du contexte  juridique et factuel de l'affaire pendante.
Article 2
1. Un collège de cinq juges de la Grande Chambre se prononce  sur l'acceptation de la demande d'avis consultatif au regard  de l'article 1. Tout refus du collège d'accepter la demande  est motivé.
2. Lorsque le collège accepte la demande, la Grande  Chambre rend un avis consultatif.
3. Le collège et la Grande Chambre, visés aux  paragraphes précédents, comprennent de plein droit le juge élu  au titre de la Haute Partie contractante dont relève la  juridiction qui a procédé à la demande. En cas d'absence de ce  juge, ou lorsqu'il n'est pas en mesure de siéger, une personne  choisie par le Président de la Cour sur une liste soumise au  préalable par cette Partie siège en qualité de juge.
Article 3
Le Commissaire aux droits de l'homme du Conseil de l'Europe et  la Haute Partie contractante dont relève la juridiction qui a  procédé à la demande ont le droit de présenter des  observations écrites et de prendre part aux audiences. Le  Président de la Cour peut, dans l'intérêt d'une bonne  administration de la justice, inviter toute autre Haute Partie  contractante ou personne à présenter également des  observations écrites ou à prendre part aux audiences.
Article 4
1. Les avis consultatifs sont motivés.
2. Si l'avis consultatif n'exprime pas, en tout ou en  partie, l'opinion unanime des juges, tout juge a le droit d'y  joindre l'exposé de son opinion séparée.
3. Les avis consultatifs sont transmis à la  juridiction qui a procédé à la demande et à la Haute Partie  contractante dont cette juridiction relève.
	
4. Les avis consultatifs sont publiés.
Article 5
Les avis consultatifs ne sont pas contraignants.
Article 6
Les Hautes Parties contractantes considèrent les articles 1 à 
5 du présent Protocole comme des articles additionnels à la  Convention, et toutes les dispositions de la Convention  s'appliquent en conséquence.
Article 7
1. Le présent Protocole est ouvert à la signature des Hautes  Parties contractantes à la Convention, qui peuvent exprimer  leur consentement à être liées par:
a) la signature sans réserve de ratification,  d'acceptation ou d'approbation; ou
b) la signature sous réserve de ratification,  d'acceptation ou d'approbation, suivie de ratification,  d'acceptation ou d'approbation.
2. Les instruments de ratification, d'acceptation ou  d'approbation seront déposés près le Secrétaire Général du  Conseil de l'Europe.
Article 8
1. Le présent Protocole entrera en vigueur le premier jour du  mois qui suit l'expiration d'une période de trois mois après  la date à laquelle dix Hautes Parties contractantes à la  Convention auront exprimé leur consentement à être liées par  le Protocole conformément aux dispositions de l'article 7.
2. Pour toute Haute Partie contractante à la  Convention qui exprimera ultérieurement son consentement à 
être liée par le présent Protocole, celui-ci entrera en  vigueur le premier jour du mois qui suit l'expiration d'une  période de trois mois après la date de l'expression de son  consentement à être liée par le Protocole conformément aux  dispositions de l'article 7.
Article 9
Aucune réserve n'est admise aux dispositions du présent  Protocole au titre de l'article 57 de la Convention.
Article 10
Chaque Haute Partie contractante à la Convention indique, au  moment de la signature ou du dépôt de son instrument de  ratification, d'acceptation ou d'approbation, au moyen d'une  déclaration adressée au Secrétaire Général du Conseil de  l'Europe, quelles juridictions elle désigne aux fins de  l'article 1, paragraphe 1, du présent Protocole. Cette  déclaration peut être modifiée à tout moment de la même  manière.
Article 11
Le Secrétaire Général du Conseil de l'Europe notifiera aux  Etats membres du Conseil de l'Europe et aux autres Hautes  Parties contractantes à la Convention:
a) toute signature;
b) le dépôt de tout instrument de  ratification, d'acceptation ou d'approbation;
c) toute date d'entrée en vigueur du présent  Protocole, conformément à l'article 8;
d) toute déclaration faite en vertu de l'article 10;  et		
		
e) tout autre acte, notification ou  communication ayant trait au présent Protocole.
En foi de quoi, les soussignés, dûment autorisés à  cet effet, ont signé le présent Protocole.	
	
Europeiska konventionen om skydd för de mänskliga rättigheterna och de grundläggande friheterna
Undertecknade regeringar, som är medlemmar av Europarådet,
som beaktar den allmänna förklaring om de mänskliga  rättigheterna som antagits av Förenta nationernas  generalförsamling den 10 december 1948,
som beaktar att denna förklaring syftar till att trygga ett  universellt och verksamt erkännande och iakttagande av de  rättigheter som där angetts,
som beaktar att Europarådets syfte är att uppnå en fastare  enhet mellan dess medlemmar och att ett av medlen att  fullfölja detta syfte är att bevara och utveckla de mänskliga  rättigheterna och de grundläggande friheterna,
som bekräftar sin djupa tro på de grundläggande friheterna  som utgör själva grundvalen för rättvisa och fred i världen  och som bäst bevaras, å ena sidan, genom verklig politisk  demokrati samt, å den andra, genom en gemensam grundsyn på  och respekt för de mänskliga rättigheterna, på vilka de  förlitar sig,
samt såsom regeringar i europeiska stater vilka besjälas av  samma anda och äger ett gemensamt arv i sina politiska  traditioner, sina ideal, sin frihet och sin grundläggande  rättsuppfattning och är beslutna att vidta de första  åtgärderna ägnade att åstadkomma en kollektiv garanti för  vissa av de rättigheter som angetts i den allmänna  förklaringen,
som bekräftar att de höga fördragsslutande parterna, i  enlighet med subsidiaritetsprincipen, bär det primära  ansvaret för att säkerställa skyddet av de rättigheter och  friheter som anges i denna konvention och protokollen till  denna, och då har en bedömningsmarginal som är underställd  den prövningsrätt som tillkommer Europeiska domstolen för de  mänskliga rättigheterna upprättad genom denna konvention,
har kommit överens om följande.
Artikel 1 - Skyldighet att respektera de mänskliga rättigheterna
De höga fördragsslutande parterna skall garantera var och en, som befinner sig under deras jurisdiktion, de fri- och rättigheter som anges i avdelning I i denna konvention.
AVDELNING I - RÄTTIGHETER OCH FRIHETER
Artikel 2 - Rätt till livet
1. Envars rätt till livet skall skyddas genom lag. Ingen skall avsiktligen berövas livet utom för att verkställa domstols dom i de fall då han dömts för brott som enligt lag är belagt med sådant straff.
2. Ingen skall anses ha berövats livet i strid med denna artikel, när detta är en följd av våld som var absolut nödvändigt
a) för att försvara någon mot olaglig våldsgärning,
b) för att verkställa en laglig arrestering eller för att hindra någon som lagligen är berövad friheten att undkomma,
c) för att i laglig ordning stävja upplopp eller uppror.
Artikel 3 - Förbud mot tortyr
Ingen får utsättas för tortyr eller omänsklig eller förnedrande behandling eller bestraffning.
Artikel 4 - Förbud mot slaveri och tvångsarbete
1. Ingen får hållas i slaveri eller träldom.
2. Ingen får tvingas att utföra tvångsarbete eller annat påtvingat arbete.
3. Med "tvångsarbete eller annat påtvingat arbete" enligt denna artikel förstås inte
a) arbete som vanligtvis utkrävs av den som är frihetsberövad i enlighet med bestämmelserna i artikel 5 i denna konvention eller som är villkorligt frigiven från sådant frihetsberövande,
b) tjänstgöring av militär art eller, i länder där samvetsbetänkligheter mot sådan tjänstgöring beaktas, tjänstgöring som i dessa fall utkrävs i stället för militär värnpliktstjänstgöring,
c) tjänstgöring som utkrävs när nödläge eller olycka hotar samhällets existens eller välfärd,
d) arbete eller tjänstgöring som ingår i de normala medborgerliga skyldigheterna.
Artikel 5 - Rätt till frihet och säkerhet
1. Var och en har rätt till frihet och personlig säkerhet.
Ingen får berövas friheten utom i följande fall och i den ordning som lagen föreskriver
a) när någon är lagligen berövad friheten efter fällande dom av behörig domstol,
b) när någon är lagligen arresterad eller på annat sätt berövad friheten, antingen därför att han underlåtit att uppfylla en domstols lagligen meddelade föreläggande eller i syfte att säkerställa ett fullgörande av någon i lag föreskriven skyldighet,
c) när någon är lagligen arresterad eller på annat sätt berövad friheten för att ställas inför behörig rättslig myndighet såsom skäligen misstänkt för att ha begått ett brott, eller när det skäligen anses nödvändigt att hindra honom från att begå ett brott eller att undkomma efter att ha gjort detta,
d) när en underårig genom ett lagligen meddelat beslut är berövad friheten för att undergå skyddsuppfostran eller för att inställas inför behörig rättslig myndighet,
e) när någon är lagligen berövad friheten för att förhindra spridning av smittosam sjukdom eller därför att han är psykiskt sjuk, alkoholmissbrukare, missbrukare av droger eller lösdrivare,
f) när någon är lagligen arresterad eller på annat sätt berövad friheten för att förhindra att han obehörigen reser in i landet eller som ett led i ett förfarande som rör hans utvisning eller utlämning.
2. Var och en som arresteras skall utan dröjsmål och på ett språk som han förstår underrättas om skälen för åtgärden och om varje anklagelse mot honom.
3. Var och en som är arresterad eller på annat sätt berövad friheten i enlighet med vad som sagts under punkt 1 c skall utan dröjsmål ställas inför domare eller annan ämbetsman, som enligt lag får fullgöra dömande uppgifter, och skall vara berättigad till rättegång inom skälig tid eller till frigivning i avvaktan på rättegång. För frigivning får krävas att garantier ställs för att den som friges inställer sig till rättegången.
4. Var och en som berövas friheten genom arrestering eller på annat sätt skall ha rätt att påfordra att domstol snabbt prövar lagligheten av frihetsberövandet och beslutar att frige honom, om frihetsberövandet inte är lagligt.
5. Var och en som arresterats eller på annat vis berövats friheten i strid med bestämmelserna i denna artikel skall ha rätt till skadestånd.
Artikel 6 - Rätt till en rättvis rättegång
1. Var och en skall, vid prövningen av hans civila rättigheter och skyldigheter eller av en anklagelse mot honom för brott, vara berättigad till en rättvis och offentlig förhandling inom skälig tid och inför en oavhängig och opartisk domstol, som upprättats enligt lag. Domen skall avkunnas offentligt, men pressen och allmänheten får utestängas från förhandlingen eller en del därav av hänsyn till den allmänna moralen, den allmänna ordningen eller den nationella säkerheten i ett demokratiskt samhälle, eller då minderårigas intressen eller skyddet för parternas privatliv så kräver eller, i den mån domstolen finner det strängt nödvändigt, under särskilda omständigheter när offentlighet skulle skada rättvisans intresse.
2. Var och en som blivit anklagad för brott skall betraktas som oskyldig till dess hans skuld lagligen fastställts.
3. Var och en som blivit anklagad för brott har följande minimirättigheter
a) att utan dröjsmål, på ett språk som han förstår och i detalj, underrättas om innebörden av och grunden för anklagelsen mot honom,
b) att få tillräcklig tid och möjlighet att förbereda sitt försvar,
c) att försvara sig personligen eller genom rättegångsbiträde som han själv utsett eller att, när han saknar tillräckliga medel för att betala ett rättegångsbiträde, erhålla ett sådant utan kostnad, om rättvisans intresse så fordrar,
d) att förhöra eller låta förhöra vittnen som åberopas mot honom samt att själv få vittnen inkallade och förhörda under samma förhållanden som vittnen åberopade mot honom,
e) att utan kostnad bistås av tolk, om han inte förstår eller talar det språk som begagnas i domstolen.
Artikel 7 - Inget straff utan lag
1. Ingen får fällas till ansvar för någon gärning eller underlåtenhet som vid den tidpunkt då den begicks inte utgjorde ett brott enligt nationell eller internationell rätt. Inte heller får ett strängare straff utmätas än som var tilllämpligt vid den tidpunkt då brottet begicks.
2. Denna artikel skall inte hindra lagföring och bestraffning av den som gjort sig skyldig till en handling eller underlåtenhet som då den begicks var brottslig enligt de allmänna rättsprinciper som erkänns av civiliserade stater.
Artikel 8 - Rätt till skydd för privat- och familjeliv
1. Var och en har rätt till respekt för sitt privat- och familjeliv, sitt hem och sin korrespondens.
2. Offentlig myndighet får inte inskränka åtnjutande av denna rättighet annat än med stöd av lag och om det i ett demokratiskt samhälle är nödvändigt med hänsyn till statens säkerhet, den allmänna säkerheten, landets ekonomiska välstånd eller till förebyggande av oordning eller brott eller till skydd för hälsa eller moral eller för andra personers fri- och rättigheter.
Artikel 9 - Tankefrihet, samvetsfrihet och religionsfrihet
1. Var och en har rätt till tankefrihet, samvetsfrihet och religionsfrihet; denna rätt innefattar frihet att byta religion eller tro och frihet att ensam eller i gemenskap med andra, offentligt eller enskilt, utöva sin religion eller tro genom gudstjänst, undervisning, sedvänjor och ritualer.
2. Friheten att utöva sin religion eller tro får endast underkastas sådana inskränkningar som är föreskrivna i lag och som i ett demokratiskt samhälle är nödvändiga med hänsyn till den allmänna säkerheten eller till skydd för allmän ordning, hälsa eller moral eller till skydd för andra personers fri- och rättigheter.
Artikel 10 - Yttrandefrihet
1. Var och en har rätt till yttrandefrihet. Denna rätt innefattar åsiktsfrihet samt frihet att ta emot och sprida uppgifter och tankar utan offentlig myndighets inblandning och oberoende av territoriella gränser. Denna artikel hindrar inte en stat att kräva tillstånd för radio-, televisions- eller biografföretag.
2. Eftersom utövandet av de nämnda friheterna medför ansvar och skyldigheter, får det underkastas sådana formföreskrifter, villkor, inskränkningar eller straffpåföljder som är föreskrivna i lag och som i ett demokratiskt samhälle är nödvändiga med hänsyn till statens säkerhet, till den territoriella integriteten eller den allmänna säkerheten, till förebyggande av oordning eller brott, till skydd för hälsa eller moral eller för annans goda namn och rykte eller rättigheter, för att förhindra att förtroliga underrättelser sprids eller för att upprätthålla domstolars auktoritet och opartiskhet.
Artikel 11 - Frihet att delta i sammankomster och föreningsfrihet
1. Var och en har rätt till frihet att delta i fredliga sammankomster samt till föreningsfrihet, inbegripet rätten att bilda och ansluta sig till fackföreningar för att skydda sina intressen.
2. Utövandet av dessa rättigheter får inte underkastas andra inskränkningar än sådana som är föreskrivna i lag och som i ett demokratiskt samhälle är nödvändiga med hänsyn till statens säkerhet eller den allmänna säkerheten, till förebyggande av oordning eller brott, till skydd för hälsa eller moral eller till skydd för andra personers fri- och rät-tigheter. Denna artikel hindrar inte att det för medlemmar av de väpnade styrkorna, polisen eller den statliga förvaltningen görs lagliga inskränkningar i utövandet av de nämnda rättigheterna.
Artikel 12 - Rätt att ingå äktenskap
Giftasvuxna män och kvinnor har rätt att ingå äktenskap och bilda familj i enlighet med de nationella lagar som reglerar utövandet av denna rättighet.
Artikel 13 - Rätt till ett effektivt rättsmedel
Var och en, vars i denna konvention angivna fri- och rät-
tigheter kränkts, skall ha tillgång till ett effektivt rättsmedel inför en nationell myndighet och detta även om kränkningen förövats av någon under utövning av offentlig myndighet.
Artikel 14 - Förbud mot diskriminering
Åtnjutandet av de fri- och rättigheter som anges i denna konvention skall säkerställas utan någon åtskillnad såsom på grund av kön, ras, hudfärg, språk, religion, politisk eller annan åskådning, nationellt eller socialt ursprung, tillhörighet till nationell minoritet, förmögenhet, börd eller ställning i övrigt.
Artikel 15 - Avvikelse från konventionsförpliktelse vid nödläge
1. Under krig eller i annat allmänt nödläge som hotar nationens existens får en hög fördragsslutande part vidta åtgärder som innebär avvikelser från dess skyldigheter enligt denna konvention i den utsträckning som det är oundgängligen nödvändigt med hänsyn till situationens krav, under förutsättning att dessa åtgärder inte strider mot landets övriga förpliktelser enligt den internationella rätten.
2. Inga inskränkningar får med stöd av denna bestämmelse göras i artikel 2, utom i fråga om dödsfall till följd av lagliga krigshandlingar, eller i artiklarna 3, 4 (punkt 1) och 7.
3. En hög fördragsslutande part som begagnar sig av rät-ten att göra avvikelse från denna konvention skall hålla Europarådets generalsekreterare fullt underrättad om de åtgärder som vidtagits i sådant hänseende och om skälen för dessa. Den höga fördragsslutande parten skall också underrätta Europarådets generalsekreterare om när dessa åtgärder har upphört att gälla och konventionens bestämmelser åter blivit fullt tillämpliga.
Artikel 16 - Inskränkningar i utlänningars politiska verksamhet
Ingenting i artiklarna 10, 11 och 14 får anses hindra de höga fördragsslutande parterna från att införa inskränkningar i utlänningars politiska verksamhet.
Artikel 17 - Förbud mot missbruk av rättigheter
Ingenting i denna konvention får tolkas så att det medför en rätt för någon stat, grupp eller person att bedriva verksamhet eller utföra handling som syftar till att utplåna någon av de fri- och rättigheter som angetts i konventionen eller till att inskränka dem i större utsträckning än vad som medgetts där.
Artikel 18 - Begränsning av användningen av inskränkningar i rättigheter
De inskränkningar som medgetts enligt denna konvention beträffande de där upptagna fri- och rättigheterna får inte tillämpas annat än i de syften för vilka de medgetts.
AVDELNING II - EUROPEISKA DOMSTOLEN FÖR DE MÄNSKLIGA RÄTTIGHETERNA
Artikel 19 - Upprättande av domstolen
För att säkerställa att de förpliktelser fullgörs som de höga fördragsslutande parterna åtagit sig genom konventionen och protokollen till denna skall en europeisk domstol för de mänskliga rättigheterna upprättas, nedan kallad "domstolen".
Den skall verka på permanent grundval.
Artikel 20 - Antal ledamöter
Domstolen skall bestå av lika många ledamöter som höga fördragsslutande parter.
Artikel 21 - Villkor för ämbetet
1. Domstolens ledamöter skall vara moraliskt oförvitliga och  skall antingen uppfylla de villkor som erfordras för  utnämning till högre domarebefattningar eller vara rättslärda  med erkänd kompetens.
2. Kandidaterna ska vara yngre än 65 år den dag till vilken  den parlamentariska församlingen har begärt in listan över  tre kandidater, med anledning av artikel 22.
3. Ledamöterna skall tjänstgöra i sin personliga egenskap.
4. Under sin mandattid får ledamöterna inte åta sig uppdrag  som är oförenliga med deras oavhängighet och opartiskhet  eller med de krav som ett heltidsämbete ställer; alla frågor  som rör tillämpningen av denna punkt skall avgöras av  domstolen.
Artikel 22 - Val av ledamöter
Domstolens ledamöter väljs, en för varje hög fördragsslutande part, av den parlamentariska församlingen med en majoritet av antalet avgivna röster och från en lista över tre kandidater som nominerats av den höga fördragsslutande parten.
Artikel 23 - Mandattid och entledigande
1. Domstolens ledamöter väljs för en tid av nio år. De får  inte omväljas.
2. Ledamöterna skall inneha sitt uppdrag till dess att de  blir ersatta. De skall dock fullfölja handläggningen av mål  som redan påbörjats.
3. En domstolsledamot får inte entledigas från sitt ämbete om  inte de övriga ledamöterna med två tredjedels majoritet  beslutar att domstolsledamoten inte längre uppfyller de  uppställda villkoren.
Artikel 24 - Kansli och rapportörer
1. Domstolen skall ha ett kansli vars uppgifter och organisation skall fastställas i domstolens arbetsordning.
2. När domstolen består av en enskild domare, skall den biträdas av rapportörer, som skall fungera under domstolens ordförande. De skall ingå i domstolens kansli.
Artikel 25 - Domstolen i plenum
Domstolen i plenum skall
a) välja ordförande och en eller två vice ordförande för en treårsperiod; de får omväljas,
b) inrätta kamrar för en bestämd tid,
c) välja ordförande till domstolens kamrar; de får omväljas,
d) utfärda arbetsordning för domstolen,
e) välja kanslichef samt en eller flera ställföreträdare,
f) göra en framställning enligt artikel 26.2.
Artikel 26 - Enskilda domare, kommittéer, kamrar och stor sammansättning ("Grand Chamber")
1. Domstolen skall vid handläggningen av mål som förelagts den bestå av en enskild domare, kommittéer sammansatta av tre ledamöter, kamrar sammansatta av sju ledamöter och stor sammansättning med sjutton ledamöter. Domstolens kamrar skall tillsätta kommittéer för en bestämd tid.
2. Efter framställning av domstolen i plenum kan ministerkommittén genom enhälligt beslut och för en bestämd tid minska antalet ledamöter i kamrarna till fem.
3. Den som tjänstgör som enskild domare får inte handlägga ett klagomål mot den höga fördragsslutande part för vilken han eller hon har valts.
4. Den ledamot som valts för den höga fördragsslutande part som är part i ett mål skall sitta med som självskriven ledamot i kammaren och vid prövning av mål i stor sammansättning. Om det inte finns någon sådan ledamot eller om han eller hon inte kan delta, skall en person utsedd av domstolens ordförande från en lista som på förhand har överlämnats av den höga fördragsslutande parten delta som ledamot.
5. Domstolen i stor sammansättning skall även innefatta domstolens ordförande, vice ordförande, ordförande i kamrarna och andra ledamöter som utsetts enligt domstolens arbetsordning. När ett mål hänskjutits till domstolen i stor sammansättning enligt artikel 43, får ingen ledamot i den kammare som meddelat domen delta med undantag för kammarens ordförande och den ledamot som deltog för den höga fördragsslutande part som var part i målet.
Artikel 27 - Enskilda domares behörighet
1. En enskild domare får avvisa eller avskriva ett enskilt klagomål enligt artikel 34, om ett sådant beslut kan fattas utan ytterligare prövning.
2. Beslutet är slutgiltigt.
3. Om den enskilde domaren inte avvisar eller avskriver ett enskilt klagomål, skall han eller hon hänskjuta det till en kommitté eller till en kammare för vidare prövning.
Artikel 28 - Kommittéernas behörighet
1. Vad gäller ett enskilt klagomål enligt artikel 34 får en kommitté enhälligt
a) avvisa eller avskriva klagomålet, när beslut kan fattas utan ytterligare prövning, eller
b) ta upp klagomålet till prövning och samtidigt besluta dom, om den underliggande frågan i målet avseende tolkningen eller tillämpningen av konventionen eller protokollen till denna redan är föremål för domstolens väl befästa praxis.
2. Beslut och domar enligt punkt 1 är slutgiltiga.
3. Om den ledamot som valts för den höga fördragsslutande part som är part i ett mål inte är ledamot i kommittén, kan kommittén när som helst under förfarandet ge honom eller henne tillfälle att inta en av kommittéledamöternas platser med beaktande av alla relevanta omständigheter, däribland om den parten har bestridit tillämpningen av det förfarande som avses i punkt 1 b.
Artikel 29 - Beslut av kamrar om upptagande av klagomål till prövning samt avgöranden i sak
1. Om inget beslut har fattats enligt artikel 27 eller 28 eller ingen dom beslutats enligt artikel 28, skall en kammare bestämma om ett enskilt klagomål enligt artikel 34 skall tas upp till prövning, och om så är fallet avgöra målet i sak.
Beslut om att ta upp ett enskilt klagomål till prövning får fattas särskilt.
2. En kammare skall besluta om att ta upp mellanstatliga klagomål enligt artikel 33 till prövning och i sådant fall avgöra målet i sak. Beslut om att ta upp ett klagomål till prövning skall fattas särskilt om inte domstolen i undantagsfall beslutar annat.
Artikel 30 - Hänskjutande till domstolen i stor sammansättning
Om ett pågående mål i en kammare ger upphov till en allvarlig  fråga som rör tolkningen av konventionen eller protokollen  till denna eller om avgörandet av en fråga i en kammare kan  leda till ett resultat som strider mot en tidigare dom av  domstolen, får kammaren när som helst, innan den meddelar sin  dom, hänskjuta målet till domstolen i stor sammansättning.
Artikel 31 - Behörighet för domstolen i stor sammansättning
I stor sammansättning skall domstolen
a) avgöra klagomål som anförts enligt artikel 33 eller artikel 34 när en kammare har hänskjutit målet enligt artikel 30 eller när målet har hänskjutits till den enligt artikel 43,
b) besluta om frågor som hänskjutits till domstolen av ministerkommittén enligt artikel 46.4, och
c) behandla framställningar om rådgivande yttranden enligt artikel 47.
Artikel 32 - Domstolens behörighet
1. Domstolen är behörig i alla frågor som rör tolkningen och tillämpningen av konventionen och protokollen till denna vilka hänskjuts till den enligt artiklarna 33, 34, 46 och 47.
2. Om en tvist uppkommer rörande domstolens behörighet, skall domstolen avgöra frågan.
Artikel 33 - Mellanstatliga mål
En hög fördragsslutande part får till domstolen hänskjuta ett påstående om brott mot bestämmelserna i konventionen och i protokollen till denna begånget av en annan hög fördragsslutande part.
Artikel 34 - Enskilda klagomål
Domstolen får ta emot klagomål från enskilda personer, icke-
statliga organisationer eller grupper av enskilda personer, som påstår sig av någon av de höga fördragsslutande parterna ha utsatts för en kränkning av någon av de i konventionen eller i protokollen till denna angivna rättigheterna. De höga fördragsslutande parterna förbinder sig att inte på något sätt förhindra ett effektivt utövande av denna klagorätt.
Artikel 35 - Villkor för upptagande av mål till prövning
1. Ett mål får anhängiggöras hos domstolen först när alla  nationella rättsmedel har uttömts i enlighet med den  internationella rättens allmänt erkända regler, och senast  fyra månader från dagen för beslutet.
2. Domstolen får inte ta upp ett enskilt klagomål enligt  artikel 34 till behandling som
a) är anonymt, eller
b) väsentligen innefattar samma omständigheter som redan  prövats av domstolen eller redan hänskjutits till  internationell undersökning eller reglering i annan form och  som inte innehåller nya relevanta upplysningar.
3. Domstolen skall avvisa varje enskilt klagomål enligt  artikel 34, om den anser att
a) klagomålet är oförenligt med bestämmelserna i denna  konvention eller protokollen till denna, är uppenbart  ogrundat eller utgör ett missbruk av rätten att klaga,  eller
b) den klagande inte har lidit avsevärt men, såvida inte  respekten för de mänskliga rättigheterna som de definieras i  denna konvention eller protokollen till denna kräver  sakprövning.
4. Domstolen skall avvisa varje klagomål som den inte anser  sig behörig att pröva enligt denna artikel. Den får göra  detta på vilket stadium som helst av förfarandet.
Artikel 36 - Intervention av tredje part
1. I alla mål inför en kammare eller inför domstolen i stor sammansättning skall en hög fördragsslutande part, vars medborgare är klagande, ha rätt att avge skriftliga yttranden och att delta i muntliga förhandlingar.
2. Domstolens ordförande får för att tillgodose intresset av en god rättskipning inbjuda varje hög fördragsslutande part, som inte är part i förfarandet, eller varje annan person som berörs än klaganden, att avge skriftliga yttranden eller delta i muntliga förhandlingar.
3. I alla mål inför en kammare eller inför domstolen i stor sammansättning får Europarådets kommissionär för mänskliga rättigheter avge skriftliga yttranden och delta i muntliga förhandlingar.
Artikel 37 - Avskrivning av klagomål
1. Domstolen får på varje stadium av förfarandet besluta att avskriva ett mål om omständigheterna leder till slutsatsen att
a) klaganden inte har för avsikt att fullfölja sitt klagomål, eller
b) frågan har lösts, eller
c) det av någon annan av domstolen konstaterad anledning inte längre är befogat att fortsätta prövningen av klagomålet.
Domstolen skall dock fortsätta prövningen av klagomålet om respekten för de mänskliga rättigheterna, sådana de definierats i denna konvention och i protokollen till denna, så kräver.
2. Domstolen får besluta att återuppta ett klagomål till behandling om den anser att omständigheterna föranleder en sådan åtgärd.
Artikel 38 - Prövning av
målet
Domstolen skall pröva målet tillsammans med parternas ombud och vid behov göra en utredning. De höga fördragsslutande parter som är parter i målet skall på alla sätt underlätta att utredningen kan ske effektivt.
Artikel 39 - Förlikning
1. Domstolen får på varje stadium av förfarandet ställa sig till parternas förfogande i syfte att nå en förlikning grundad på respekten för de mänskliga rättigheterna som de definieras i denna konvention och protokollen till denna.
2. Handläggningen enligt punkt 1 skall vara konfidentiell.
3. Om förlikning uppnås, skall domstolen avskriva målet genom ett beslut som endast skall uppta en kortfattad redogörelse för omständigheterna och för den lösning som nåtts.
4. Beslutet skall överlämnas till ministerkommittén, som skall övervaka att villkoren verkställs i den förlikning som anges i beslutet.
Artikel 40 - Offentliga förhandlingar och tillgång till handlingar
1. Förhandlingar skall vara offentliga om inte domstolen i undantagsfall beslutar annat.
2. Handlingar som givits in till kanslichefen skall vara tillgängliga för allmänheten om inte domstolens ordförande beslutar annat.
Artikel 41 - Skälig gottgörelse
Om domstolen finner att ett brott mot konventionen eller protokollen till denna ägt rum och om den berörda höga fördragsslutande partens nationella rätt endast till en del medger att gottgörelse lämnas, skall domstolen, om så anses nödvändigt, tillerkänna den förfördelade parten skälig gottgörelse.
Artikel 42 - Kamrarnas domar
Kamrarnas domar skall bli slutgiltiga i enlighet med bestämmelserna i artikel 44.2.
Artikel 43 - Hänskjutande till domstolen i stor sammansättning
1. Var och en av parterna i målet får inom en period av tre månader från den dag då kammaren meddelat dom i undantagsfall begära att målet skall hänskjutas till domstolen i stor sammansättning.
2. En panel med fem ledamöter av domstolen i stor sammansättning skall bevilja en sådan begäran om målet ger upphov till en allvarlig fråga som rör tolkningen eller tilllämpningen av konventionen eller protokollen till denna eller rör en allvarlig fråga av stor allmän betydelse.
3. Om panelen beviljar begäran, skall domstolen i stor sammansättning avgöra målet genom dom.
Artikel 44 - Slutliga domar
1. Dom som meddelas av domstolen i stor sammansättning är slutgiltig.
2. Dom som meddelas av en kammare blir slutgiltig
a) när parterna förklarar att de inte kommer att begära att målet hänskjuts till domstolen i stor sammansättning, eller
b) tre månader efter den dag då domen meddelades, om hänskjutande till domstolen i stor sammansättning inte har begärts, eller
c) när panelen i domstolen i stor sammansättning avslår en begäran om hänskjutande enligt artikel 43.
3. Den slutgiltiga domen skall offentliggöras.
Artikel 45 - Skäl för domar och beslut
1. Skäl skall anges för domar samt för beslut om att uppta ett mål till prövning eller avvisa det.
2. Om en dom helt eller delvis inte ger uttryck för ledamöternas enhälliga uppfattning, har varje ledamot rätt att avge sin särskilda mening.
Artikel 46 - Bindande kraft och verkställighet av domar
1. De höga fördragsslutande parterna förbinder sig att rätta sig efter domstolens slutgiltiga dom i varje mål där de är parter.
2. Domstolens slutgiltiga dom skall överlämnas till ministerkommittén, som skall övervaka att domen verkställs.
3. Om ministerkommittén finner att övervakningen av verkställandet av en slutgiltig dom hindras av ett problem i fråga om tolkning av domen, får den hänskjuta ärendet till domstolen för avgörande av tolkningsfrågan. Ett beslut om hänskjutande fordrar en majoritet av två tredjedelar av de företrädare som är berättigade att sitta med i kommittén.
4. Om ministerkommittén finner att en hög fördragsslutande part vägrar att rätta sig efter en slutgiltig dom i ett mål där den är part, får den, efter att ha formellt underrättat parten och genom ett beslut fattat med två tredjedels majoritet av de företrädare som är berättigade att sitta med i kommittén, till domstolen hänskjuta frågan om parten har brustit i att uppfylla sin skyldighet enligt punkt 1.
5. Om domstolen finner att punkt 1 har kränkts, skall den hänskjuta målet till ministerkommittén för bedömande av vilka åtgärder som skall vidtas. Om domstolen finner att punkt 1 inte har kränkts, skall den hänskjuta målet till ministerkommittén, som skall avsluta sin behandling av det.
Artikel 47 - Rådgivande yttranden
1. På begäran av ministerkommittén får domstolen avge rådgivande yttranden i rättsfrågor avseende tolkningen av konventionen och protokollen till denna.
2. Dessa yttranden får inte avse frågor om innehållet i eller omfattningen av de rättigheter och friheter som upptagits i avdelning I i konventionen och i protokollen till denna och inte heller någon annan fråga till vilken domstolen eller ministerkommittén kan ha att ta ställning till följd av ett sådant förfarande som kan komma att inledas enligt konventionen.
3. Ministerkommitténs beslut att begära ett rådgivande yttrande av domstolen fattas med en majoritet av de ledamöter som är berättigade att sitta med i kommittén.
Artikel 48 - Domstolens behörighet att avge rådgivande yttranden
Domstolen avgör om en begäran från ministerkommittén om ett rådgivande yttrande faller inom domstolens behörighet enligt artikel 47.
Artikel 49 - Skäl för rådgivande yttranden
1. Skäl skall anges för domstolens rådgivande yttranden.
2. Om ett yttrande helt eller delvis inte ger uttryck för ledamöternas enhälliga uppfattning, har varje ledamot rätt att avge sin särskilda mening.
3. Domstolens rådgivande yttranden skall överlämnas till ministerkommittén.
Artikel 50 - Domstolens utgifter
Domstolens utgifter skall bekostas av Europarådet.
Artikel 51 - Privilegier och immunitet för domstolens ledamöter
Domstolens ledamöter har under utövandet av sitt ämbete rätt till de privilegier och den immunitet som anges i artikel 40 i Europarådets stadga och i de avtal som ingåtts i enlighet med den artikeln.
AVDELNING III - DIVERSE BESTÄMMELSER
Artikel 52 - Förfrågningar från generalsekreteraren
På anmodan av Europarådets generalsekreterare skall varje hög fördragsslutande part tillhandahålla upplysningar om sätt på vilket dess inhemska lagstiftning säkerställer en effektiv tillämpning av bestämmelserna i denna konvention.
Artikel 53 - Skydd för befintliga mänskliga rättigheter
Ingenting i denna konvention får tolkas som en begränsning av eller en avvikelse från någon av de mänskliga rättigheter och grundläggande friheter som kan vara skyddade i de höga fördragsslutande parternas lagar eller i någon annan konvention i vilken de är parter.
Artikel 54 - Ministerkommitténs befogenheter
Ingenting i denna konvention skall inskränka de befogenheter som tillerkänts ministerkommittén genom Europarådets stadga.
Artikel 55 - Avstående från reglering av tvister i annan ordning
Om det inte finns en särskild överenskommelse, avstår de höga fördragsslutande parterna från att begagna sig av de fördrag, konventioner eller förklaringar som gäller mellan dem för att hänskjuta en tvist rörande tolkningen eller tillämpningen av denna konvention till reglering i annan ordning än vad som föreskrivs i konventionen.
Artikel 56 - Territoriell tillämpning
1. En stat får när den ratificerar, eller när som helst senare, genom en notifikation ställd till Europarådets generalsekreterare, förklara att denna konvention skall, med förbehåll för punkt 4 i denna artikel, tillämpas på alla eller något av de territorier för vilkas internationella förbindelser staten i fråga svarar.
2. Konventionen skall tillämpas på det eller de territorier som anges i notifikationen från den trettionde dagen efter det att Europarådets generalsekreterare mottagit notifikationen.
3. Inom de nämnda territorierna skall dock konventionens bestämmelser tillämpas med hänsyn till vad de lokala förhållandena kräver.
4. En stat, som avgett förklaring enligt punkt 1, kan när som helst därefter förklara att staten beträffande ett eller flera av de med förklaringen avsedda territorierna erkänner domstolens behörighet att ta emot klagomål från enskilda personer, icke-statliga organisationer eller grupper av enskilda personer i enlighet med artikel 34 i konventionen.
Artikel 57 - Förbehåll
1. Vid undertecknandet av denna konvention eller vid deponering av sitt ratifikationsinstrument kan en stat göra förbehåll med avseende på någon särskild bestämmelse i konventionen, i den mån en lag som då gäller inom statens territorium inte överensstämmer med bestämmelsen. Förbehåll av allmän karaktär tillåts inte enligt denna artikel.
2. Varje förbehåll som görs enligt denna artikel skall innehålla en kort redogörelse för lagen i fråga.
Artikel 58 - Uppsägning
1. En hög fördragsslutande part får inte säga upp denna konvention förrän efter utgången av fem år från dagen för dess ikraftträdande för parten och med iakttagande av en uppsägningstid om sex månader samt genom en notifikation, ställd till Europarådets generalsekreterare, som skall underrätta de övriga höga fördragsslutande parterna om detta.
2. En uppsägning får inte till följd att den ifrågavarande höga fördragsslutande parten blir löst från sina förpliktelser enligt denna konvention såvitt avser åtgärder som skulle kunna utgöra en kränkning av dessa förpliktelser och som kan ha utförts av parten före den dag då uppsägningen blev gällande.
3. En hög fördragsslutande part som upphör att vara medlem av Europarådet upphör på samma villkor att vara part i denna konvention.
4. Konventionen får sägas upp enligt bestämmelserna under punkterna 1-3 beträffande varje territorium för vilket den förklarats tillämplig enligt artikel 56.
Artikel 59 - Undertecknande och ratifikation
1. Denna konvention står öppen för undertecknande av medlemmarna i Europarådet. Den skall ratificeras.
Ratifikationsinstrumenten skall deponeras hos Europarådets generalsekreterare.
2. Europeiska unionen får ansluta sig till denna konvention.
3. Konventionen träder i kraft när tio ratifikationsinstrument har deponerats.
4. För en stat som undertecknat och som senare ratificerar konventionen träder den i kraft den dag då ratifikationsinstrumentet deponeras.
5. Europarådets generalsekreterare skall underrätta alla medlemmar i Europarådet om konventionens ikraftträdande och om namnen på de höga fördragsslutande parter som har ratificerat den samt om senare deponering av ratifikationsinstrument.
Upprättad i Rom den 4 november 1950 på engelska och franska, vilka båda texter är lika giltiga, i ett enda exemplar, som skall vara deponerat i Europarådets arkiv. Generalsekreteraren skall sända bestyrkta kopior till var och en av de stater som undertecknat konventionen.
Tilläggsprotokoll till konventionen om skydd för de mänskliga rättigheterna och de grundläggande friheterna
Undertecknade regeringar, vilka är medlemmar av Europarådet,
som är fast beslutna att vidta åtgärder för att gemensamt säkerställa vissa andra rättigheter och friheter än dem som redan finns upptagna i avdelning I i konventionen om skydd för de mänskliga rättigheterna och de grundläggande friheterna, som undertecknades i Rom den 4 november 1950 (nedan kallad
"konventionen"),
har kommit överens om följande.
Artikel 1 - Skydd för egendom
Varje fysisk eller juridisk person skall ha rätt till respekt för sin egendom. Ingen får berövas sin egendom annat än i det allmännas intresse och under de förutsättningar som anges i lag och i folkrättens allmänna grundsatser.
Ovanstående bestämmelser inskränker dock inte en stats rätt att genomföra sådan lagstiftning som staten finner nödvändig för att reglera nyttjandet av egendom i överensstämmelse med det allmännas intresse eller för att säkerställa betalning av skatter eller andra pålagor eller av böter och viten.
Artikel 2 - Rätt till undervisning
Ingen får förvägras rätten till undervisning. Vid utövandet av den verksamhet som staten kan ta på sig i fråga om utbildning och undervisning skall staten respektera föräldrarnas rätt att tillförsäkra sina barn sådan utbildning och undervisning som står i överensstämmelse med föräldrarnas religiösa och filosofiska övertygelse.
Artikel 3 - Rätt till fria val
De höga fördragsslutande parterna förbinder sig att anordna fria och hemliga val med skäliga tidsintervaller under förhållanden som tillförsäkrar folket rätten att fritt ge uttryck åt sin mening beträffande sammansättningen av den lagstiftande församlingen.
Artikel 4 - Territoriell tillämpning
En hög fördragsslutande part får vid tidpunkten för undertecknandet eller ratifikationen av detta protokoll eller när som helst därefter till Europarådets generalsekreterare överlämna en förklaring som anger i vilken utsträckning den höga fördragsslutande parten förbinder sig att tillämpa bestämmelserna i protokollet inom de territorier som anges i förklaringen och för vilkas internationella förbindelser den höga fördragsslutande parten svarar.
En hög fördragsslutande part som avgett förklaring enligt föregående stycke får när som helst avge en ny förklaring, som ändrar innehållet i en tidigare förklaring eller bringar tillämpningen av bestämmelserna i detta protokoll att upphöra inom ett visst territorium.
En förklaring som avgetts i enlighet med denna artikel skall anses ha avgetts i enlighet med artikel 56 punkt 1 i konventionen.
Artikel 5 - Förhållande till konventionen
Mellan de höga fördragsslutande parterna skall artiklarna 1, 2, 3 och 4 i detta protokoll anses som tillägg till konventionen och samtliga bestämmelser i konventionen skall tillämpas i enlighet därmed.
Artikel 6 - Undertecknande och ratifikation
Detta protokoll står öppet för undertecknande av de medlemmar av Europarådet som undertecknat konventionen; det skall ratificeras samtidigt med eller efter ratifikationen av konventionen. Protokollet träder i kraft när tio ratifikationsinstrument har deponerats. För en stat som undertecknat och som senare ratificerar protokollet träder det i kraft den dag då ratifikationsinstrumentet deponeras.
Ratifikationsinstrumenten skall deponeras hos Europarådets generalsekreterare, som skall underrätta alla medlemmar om namnen på dem som har ratificerat protokollet.
Upprättat i Paris den 20 mars 1952 på engelska och franska, vilka båda texter är lika giltiga, i ett enda exemplar som skall vara deponerat i Europarådets arkiv. Generalsekreteraren skall sända en bestyrkt kopia till varje regering som undertecknat protokollet.
Protokoll nr 4 till konventionen om skydd för de mänskliga rättigheterna och de grundläggande friheterna, avseende erkännande av vissa andra rättigheter och friheter än dem som redan finns i konventionen och i dess första tilläggsprotokoll
Undertecknade regeringar, vilka är medlemmar av Europarådet,
som är fast beslutna att vidta åtgärder för att gemensamt säkerställa vissa andra rättigheter och friheter än dem som redan finns upptagna i avdelning I i konventionen om skydd för de mänskliga rättigheterna och de grundläggande friheterna, som undertecknades i Rom den 4 november 1950 (nedan kallad
"konventionen"), och i artiklarna 1-3 i det första tilläggsprotokollet, som undertecknades i Paris den 20 mars 1952,
har kommit överens om följande.
Artikel 1 - Förbud mot frihetsberövande på grund av skuldförbindelse
Ingen får berövas friheten enbart på grund av oförmåga att uppfylla en avtalad förpliktelse.
Artikel 2 - Rätt att fritt röra sig
1. Var och en som lagligen befinner sig inom en stats territorium har rätt att fritt röra sig där och att fritt välja sin bosättningsort.
2. Var och en är fri att lämna varje land, inbegripet sitt eget.
3. Utövandet av dessa rättigheter får inte underkastas andra inskränkningar än sådana som är angivna i lag och som i ett demokratiskt samhälle är nödvändiga av hänsyn till statens säkerhet eller den allmänna säkerheten, för att upprätthålla den allmänna ordningen eller förhindra brott eller för att skydda hälsa eller moral eller annans fri- och rättigheter.
4. De rättigheter som anges i punkt 1 får inom vissa bestämda områden också bli föremål för inskränkningar som är angivna i lag och som är försvarliga av hänsyn till det allmännas intresse i ett demokratiskt samhälle.
Artikel 3 - Förbud mot utvisning av medborgare
1. Ingen får utvisas från den stat som han är medborgare i, vare sig genom individuella eller genom kollektiva åtgärder.
2. Ingen får förvägras rätten att resa in i den stat som han är medborgare i.
Artikel 4 - Förbud mot kollektiv utvisning av utlänningar
Kollektiv utvisning av utlänningar är förbjuden.
Artikel 5 - Territoriell tillämpning
1. En hög fördragsslutande part får vid tidpunkten för undertecknandet eller ratifikationen av detta protokoll, eller när som helst därefter, till Europarådets generalsekreterare överlämna en förklaring som anger i vilken utsträckning den förbinder sig att tillämpa bestämmelserna i protokollet inom de territorier som anges i förklaringen och för vilkas internationella förbindelser parten svarar.
2. En hög fördragsslutande part som avgett förklaring enligt föregående punkt får när som helst avge ny förklaring, som ändrar innehållet i en tidigare förklaring eller bringar tillämp-
ningen av bestämmelserna i detta protokoll att upphöra inom ett visst territorium.
3. En förklaring som avgetts enligt denna artikel skall anses ha avgetts i enlighet med artikel 56 punkt 1 i konventionen.
4. En stats territorium på vilket detta protokoll är tillämpligt till följd av denna stats ratifikation eller godkännande av protokollet, liksom varje territorium på vilket protokollet är tillämpligt till följd av en av samma stat avgiven förklaring i enlighet med denna artikel, skall anses som skilda territorier såvitt avser de hänvisningar till en stats territorium som görs i artiklarna 2 och 3.
5. En stat som har avgivit en förklaring enligt punkt 1 eller 2 i denna artikel får när som helst därefter förklara att staten beträffande ett eller flera av de med förklaringen avsedda territorierna erkänner domstolens behörighet att ta emot klagomål från enskilda personer, icke-statliga organisationer eller grupper av enskilda i enlighet med artikel 34 i konventionen vad avser alla eller någon av artiklarna 1-4 i detta protokoll.
Artikel 6 - Förhållande till konventionen
Mellan de höga fördragsslutande parterna skall artiklarna 1-5 i detta protokoll anses som tillägg till konventionen och samtliga bestämmelser i konventionen skall tillämpas i enlighet därmed.
Artikel 7 - Undertecknande och ratifikation
1. Detta protokoll står öppet för undertecknande av de medlemmar av Europarådet som undertecknat konventionen; det skall ratificeras samtidigt med eller efter ratifikationen av konventionen. Protokollet träder i kraft när fem ratifikationsinstrument har deponerats. För en stat som undertecknat och som senare ratificerar protokollet träder det i kraft den dag då ratifikationsinstrumentet deponeras.
2. Ratifikationsinstrumenten skall deponeras hos Europarådets generalsekreterare, som skall underrätta alla medlemmar om namnen på dem som har ratificerat protokollet.
Till bekräftelse härav har undertecknade, därtill vederbörligen befullmäktigade, undertecknat detta protokoll.
Upprättat i Strasbourg den 16 september 1963 på engelska och franska, vilka båda texter är lika giltiga, i ett enda exemplar som skall vara deponerat i Europarådets arkiv.
Generalsekreteraren skall sända en bestyrkt kopia till varje stat som undertecknat protokollet.
Protokoll nr 6 till konventionen om skydd för de mänskliga rättigheterna och de grundläggande friheterna, avseende avskaffande av dödsstraffet
Europarådets medlemsstater, som undertecknat detta protokoll till den i Rom den 4 november 1950 undertecknade konventionen om skydd för de mänskliga rättigheterna och de grundläggande friheterna (nedan kallad "konventionen"),
som beaktar att den utveckling som skett i flera av Europarådets medlemsstater kännetecknas av en allmän tendens till avskaffande av dödsstraffet,
har kommit överens om följande.
Artikel 1 - Avskaffande av dödsstraffet
Dödsstraffet skall vara avskaffat. Ingen får dömas till ett sådant straff eller avrättas.
Artikel 2 - Dödsstraff under krigstid
En stat kan i sin lag föreskriva dödsstraff för handlingar som begåtts under krigstid eller under överhängande krigshot; ett sådant straff skall tillämpas endast i de fall som anges i lagen och i enlighet med dess föreskrifter. Staten skall underrätta Europarådets generalsekreterare om de ifrågavarande föreskrifterna i lagen.
Artikel 3 - Förbud mot avvikelser
Avvikelser enligt artikel 15 i konventionen får inte ske från bestämmelserna i detta protokoll.
Artikel 4 - Förbud mot förbehåll
Förbehåll enligt artikel 57 i konventionen får inte göras beträffande bestämmelserna i detta protokoll.
Artikel 5 - Territoriell tillämpning
1. En stat kan vid tidpunkten för undertecknandet eller när den deponerar sitt ratifikations-, godtagande- eller godkännandeinstrument ange på vilket territorium eller vilka territorier detta protokoll skall vara tillämpligt.
2. En stat kan vid en senare tidpunkt, genom en förklaring ställd till Europarådets generalsekreterare, utsträcka tilllämpningen av detta protokoll till ett annat territorium som anges i förklaringen. Med avseende på ett sådant territorium träder protokollet i kraft den första dagen i den månad som följer efter den dag då generalsekreteraren mottog förklaringen.
3. En förklaring som avgetts i enlighet med de båda föregående punkterna kan, med avseende på ett territorium som har angetts i förklaringen, återkallas genom en underrättelse ställd till generalsekreteraren. Återkallelsen gäller från den första dagen i den månad som följer efter den dag då generalsekreteraren mottog underrättelsen.
Artikel 6 - Förhållande till konventionen
Mellan de stater som är parter i konventionen skall artiklarna 1-5 i detta protokoll anses som tillägg till konventionen och samtliga bestämmelser i konventionen skall tillämpas i enlighet därmed.
Artikel 7 - Undertecknande och ratifikation
Detta protokoll står öppet för undertecknande av de medlemsstater i Europarådet som har undertecknat konventionen.
Det skall ratificeras, godtas eller godkännas. En medlemsstat får inte ratificera, godta eller godkänna detta protokoll om den inte samtidigt eller tidigare har ratificerat konventionen.
Ratifikations-, godtagande- eller godkännandeinstrument skall deponeras hos Europarådets generalsekreterare.
Artikel 8 - Ikraftträdande
1. Detta protokoll träder i kraft den första dagen i den månad som följer efter den dag då fem av Europarådets medlemsstater har uttryckt sitt samtycke till att vara bundna av protokollet i enlighet med bestämmelserna i artikel 7.
2. I förhållande till en medlemsstat som senare uttrycker sitt samtycke till att vara bunden av protokollet träder det i kraft den första dagen i den månad som följer efter den dag då ratifikations-, godtagande- eller godkännandeinstrumentet deponerades.
Artikel 9 - Depositariens uppgifter
Europarådets generalsekreterare skall underrätta rådets medlemsstater om
a) undertecknande,
b) deponering av ratifikations-, godtagande- eller godkännandeinstrument,
c) dag för detta protokolls ikraftträdande enligt artiklarna 5 och 8,
d) andra åtgärder, notifikationer eller underrättelser som rör detta protokoll.
Till bekräftelse härav har undertecknade, därtill vederbörligen befullmäktigade, undertecknat detta protokoll.
Upprättat i Strasbourg den 28 april 1983 på engelska och franska, vilka båda texter är lika giltiga, i ett enda exemplar som skall deponeras i Europarådets arkiv. Europarådets generalsekreterare skall sända en bestyrkt kopia till varje medlemsstat i Europarådet.
Protokoll nr 7 till konventionen om skydd för de mänskliga rättigheterna och de grundläggande friheterna
Europarådets medlemsstater, som undertecknat detta protokoll,
som är fast beslutna att vidta ytterligare åtgärder för att gemensamt säkerställa vissa rättigheter och friheter genom konventionen om skydd för de mänskliga rättigheterna och de grundläggande friheterna undertecknad i Rom den 4 november 1950
(här nedan kallad "konventionen"),
har kommit överens om följande.
Artikel 1 - Rättssäkerhetsgarantier vid utvisning av utlänningar
1. En utlänning som lagligen är bosatt på en stats territorium får inte utvisas därifrån utom efter ett i laga ordning fattat beslut och skall tillåtas att
a) framlägga skäl som talar mot utvisningen,
b) få sin sak omprövad och
c) för dessa ändamål företrädas genom ombud inför vederbörande myndighet eller inför en eller flera av denna myndighet utsedda personer.
2. En utlänning kan utvisas innan han utövar sina rättigheter enligt punkt 1.a, b och c i denna artikel, när utvisningen är nödvändig i den allmänna ordningens intresse eller motiveras av hänsyn till den nationella säkerheten.
Artikel 2 - Rätt till överklagande i brottmål
1. Var och en som dömts av domstol för brottslig gärning skall ha rätt att få skuldfrågan eller påföljden omprövad av högre domstol. Utövandet av denna rätt, inbegripet grunderna för dess utövande, skall regleras i lag.
2. Undantag från denna rätt får göras i fråga om mindre grova gärningar, enligt föreskrift i lag, eller i de fall då vederbörande har dömts i första instans av den högsta domstolen eller har dömts efter det att en frikännande dom har överklagats.
Artikel 3 - Gottgörelse vid felaktig dom
Har en lagakraftvunnen dom, varigenom någon dömts för brottslig gärning, senare upphävts, eller har nåd beviljats, på grund av en ny eller nyuppdagad omständighet, som styrkt att domen var felaktig, skall den som undergått straff till följd av domen gottgöras i enlighet med den berörda statens lag eller praxis, om det inte visas att det helt eller delvis berott på honom själv att den tidigare ej kända omständigheten inte blivit uppdagad i tid.
Artikel 4 - Rätt att inte bli lagförd eller straffad två gånger
1. Ingen får lagföras eller straffas på nytt i en brottmålsrättegång i samma stat för ett brott för vilket han redan blivit slutligt frikänd eller dömd i enlighet med lagen och rättegångsordningen i denna stat.
2. Bestämmelserna i föregående punkt skall inte utgöra hinder mot att målet tas upp på nytt i enlighet med lagen och rättegångsordningen i den berörda staten, om det föreligger bevis om nya eller nyuppdagade omständigheter eller om ett grovt fel har begåtts i det tidigare rättegångsförfarandet, vilket kan ha påverkat utgången i målet.
3. Avvikelse får inte ske från denna artikel med stöd av artikel 15 i konventionen.
Artikel 5 - Likställdhet mellan makar
Makar skall vara likställda i fråga om rättigheter och ansvar av privaträttslig natur inbördes samt i förhållande till sina barn, i fråga om äktenskapet, under äktenskapet och i händelse av dess upplösning. Denna artikel skall inte hindra staterna att vidta sådana åtgärder som är nödvändiga i barnens intresse.
Artikel 6 - Territoriell tillämpning
1. En stat kan vid tidpunkten för undertecknandet eller när den deponerar sitt ratifikations-, godtagande- eller godkännandeinstrument ange på vilket territorium eller vilka territorier detta protokoll skall vara tillämpligt samt ange i vilken utsträckning den åtar sig att tillämpa protokollets bestämmelser på detta territorium eller dessa territorier.
2. En stat kan vid en senare tidpunkt, genom en förklaring ställd till Europarådets generalsekreterare, utsträcka tilllämpningen av detta protokoll till ett annat territorium som anges i förklaringen. Med avseende på ett sådant territorium träder protokollet i kraft den första dagen i den månad som följer efter utgången av en period på två månader från den dag då generalsekreteraren mottog förklaringen.
3. En förklaring som avgetts i enlighet med de båda föregående punkterna kan, med avseende på ett territorium som har angetts i förklaringen, återkallas eller ändras genom en underrättelse ställd till generalsekreteraren. Återkallelsen eller ändringen gäller från den första dagen i den månad som följer efter utgången av en period på två månader från den dag då generalsekreteraren mottog underrättelsen.
4. En förklaring som avgetts enligt denna artikel skall anses ha avgetts i enlighet med artikel 56, punkt 1 i konventionen.
5. En stats territorium, på vilket detta protokoll är tillämpligt till följd av denna stats ratifikation, godtagande eller godkännande, liksom varje territorium, på vilket protokollet är tillämpligt till följd av en av samma stat avgiven förklaring med stöd av denna artikel, får betraktas som särskilda territorier när det gäller hänvisningen i artikel 1 till en stats territorium.
6. En stat som har avgivit en förklaring enligt punkt 1 eller 2 i denna artikel får när som helst därefter förklara att staten beträffande ett eller flera av de med förklaringen avsedda territorierna erkänner domstolens behörighet att ta emot klagomål från enskilda personer, icke-statliga organisationer eller grupper av enskilda i enlighet med artikel 34 i konventionen vad avser artikel 1 till 5 i detta protokoll.
Artikel 7 - Förhållande till konventionen
Mellan de stater som är parter i konventionen skall bestämmelserna i artiklarna 1-6 i detta protokoll anses som tillägg till konventionen och samtliga bestämmelser i konventionen skall tillämpas i enlighet därmed.
Artikel 8 - Undertecknande och ratifikation
Detta protokoll står öppet för undertecknande av de medlemsstater i Europarådet som har undertecknat konventionen.
Det skall ratificeras, godtas eller godkännas. En medlemsstat i Europarådet får inte ratificera, godta eller godkänna detta protokoll utan tidigare eller samtidig ratifikation av konventionen. Ratifikations-godtagande- eller godkännandeinstrumenten skall deponeras hos Europarådets generalsekreterare.
Artikel 9 - Ikraftträdande
1. Detta protokoll träder i kraft den första dagen i den månad som följer efter utgången av en period på två månader efter den dag då sju av Europarådets medlemsstater har uttryckt sitt samtycke till att vara bundna av protokollet i enlighet med bestämmelserna i artikel 8.
2. I förhållande till en medlemsstat som senare uttrycker sitt samtycke till att vara bunden av protokollet träder detta i kraft den första dagen i den månad som följer efter utgången av en period på två månader efter dagen för deponeringen av ratifikations-, godtagande- eller godkännandeinstrumentet.
Artikel 10 - Depositariens uppgifter
Europarådets generalsekreterare skall underrätta alla Europarådets medlemsstater om:
a) undertecknande,
b) deponering av ratifikations-, godtagande- eller godkännandeinstrument,
c) dag för detta protokolls ikraftträdande enligt artiklarna 6 och 9,
d) andra åtgärder, notifikationer eller förklaringar som rör detta protokoll.
Till bekräftelse härav har undertecknade, därtill vederbörligen befullmäktigade, undertecknat detta protokoll.
Upprättat i Strasbourg den 22 november 1984 på engelska och franska, vilka båda texter är lika giltiga, i ett enda exemplar som skall deponeras i Europarådets arkiv. Europarådets generalsekreterare skall sända en bestyrkt kopia till varje medlemsstat i Europarådet.
Protokoll nr 13 till konventionen om skydd för de mänskliga rättigheterna och de grundläggande friheterna, avseende avskaffande av dödsstraffet under alla omständigheter
Europarådets medlemsstater, som har undertecknat detta protokoll,
som är övertygade om att allas rätt till liv är ett grundläggande värde i ett demokratiskt samhälle och att avskaffandet av dödsstraffet är nödvändigt för skyddet av denna rättighet och för det fulla erkännandet av alla människors inneboende värdighet,
som önskar stärka det skydd av rätten till livet som garanteras av konventionen om skydd för de mänskliga rättigheterna och de grundläggande friheterna, vilken undertecknades i Rom den 4 november 1950 (nedan kallad "konventionen"),
som beaktar att protokoll nr 6 till konventionen om avskaffande av dödsstraffet, som undertecknades i Strasbourg den 28 april 1983, inte utesluter dödsstraff för handlingar som begåtts under krigstid eller under överhängande krigshot,
som är fast beslutna att ta det avgörande steget för att avskaffa dödsstraffet under alla omständigheter,
har kommit överens om följande.
Artikel 1 - Avskaffande av dödsstraffet
Dödsstraffet skall vara avskaffat. Ingen får dömas till ett sådant straff eller avrättas.
Artikel 2 - Förbud mot avvikelser
Avvikelser enligt artikel 15 i konventionen får inte ske från bestämmelserna i detta protokoll.
Artikel 3 - Förbud mot förbehåll
Förbehåll enligt artikel 57 i konventionen får inte göras beträffande bestämmelserna i detta protokoll.
Artikel 4 - Territoriell tillämpning
1. En stat kan vid tidpunkten för undertecknandet eller när den deponerar sitt ratifikations-, godtagande- eller godkännandeinstrument ange på vilket territorium eller vilka territorier detta protokoll skall vara tillämpligt.
2. En stat kan vid en senare tidpunkt, genom en förklaring ställd till Europarådets generalsekreterare, utsträcka tillämpningen av detta protokoll till ett annat territorium som anges i förklaringen. Med avseende på ett sådant territorium träder protokollet i kraft den första dagen i den månad som följer efter utgången av en tid av tre månader räknat från den dag då generalsekreteraren mottog förklaringen.
3. En förklaring som avgetts i enlighet med de båda föregående punkterna kan, med avseende på ett territorium som har angetts i förklaringen, återkallas eller ändras genom en underrättelse ställd till generalsekreteraren. Återkallelsen eller ändringen gäller från den första dagen i den månad som följer efter utgången av en tid av tre månader räknat från den dag då generalsekreteraren mottog underrättelsen.
Artikel 5 - Förhållande till konventionen
Mellan de stater som är parter i konventionen skall artiklarna 1-4 i detta protokoll anses som tillägg till konventionen och samtliga bestämmelser i konventionen skall tillämpas i enlighet därmed.
Artikel 6 - Undertecknande och ratifikation
Detta protokoll står öppet för undertecknande av de medlemsstater i Europarådet som har undertecknat konventionen.
Det skall ratificeras, godtas eller godkännas. En medlemsstat får inte ratificera, godta eller godkänna detta protokoll om den inte samtidigt eller tidigare har ratificerat konventionen.
Ratifikations-, godtagande- eller godkännandeinstrument skall deponeras hos Europarådets generalsekreterare.
Artikel 7 - Ikraftträdande
1. Detta protokoll träder i kraft den första dagen i den månad som följer efter utgången av en tid av tre månader räknat från den dag då tio av Europarådets medlemsstater har uttryckt sitt samtycke till att vara bundna av protokollet i enlighet med bestämmelserna i artikel 6.
2. I förhållande till en medlemsstat som senare uttrycker sitt samtycke till att vara bunden av protokollet träder det i kraft den första dagen i den månad som följer efter utgången av en tid av tre månader räknat från den dag då ratifikations-, godtagande- eller godkännandeinstrumentet deponerades.
Artikel 8 - Depositariens uppgifter
Europarådets generalsekreterare skall underrätta alla Europarådets medlemsstater om
a) undertecknande,
b) deponering av ratifikations-, godtagande- eller godkännandeinstrument,
c) dag för detta protokolls ikraftträdande enligt artiklarna 4 och 7,
d) andra åtgärder, notifikationer eller underrättelser som rör detta protokoll.
Till bekräftelse härav har undertecknade, därtill vederbörligen befullmäktigade, undertecknat detta protokoll.
Upprättat i Vilnius den 3 maj 2002 på engelska och franska, vilka båda texter är lika giltiga, i ett enda exemplar som skall deponeras i Europarådets arkiv. Europarådets generalsekreterare skall överlämna en bestyrkt kopia till varje medlemsstat i Europarådet.
Lag (2016:1358)
.
Europeiska konventionen om skydd för de mänskliga  rättigheterna och de grundläggande friheterna
2.X.2013	Protokoll nr 16 till konventionen om skydd för de  mänskliga rättigheterna och de grundläggande friheterna
Strasbourg,
Preambel
Europarådets medlemsstater och övriga höga fördragsslutande  parter till konventionen om skydd för de mänskliga  rättigheterna och de grundläggande friheterna, undertecknad i  Rom den 4 november 1950 (nedan kallad konventionen), som har  undertecknat detta protokoll, som beaktar bestämmelserna i  konventionen, särskilt artikel 19 om upprättande av den  europeiska domstolen för de mänskliga rättigheterna (nedan  kallad domstolen), som anser att utvidgningen av domstolens  behörighet till att ge rådgivande yttranden kommer att  förstärka samverkan mellan domstolen och de nationella  myndigheterna och därmed befästa genomförandet av konventionen  i överensstämmelse med subsidiaritetsprincipen, som beaktar  utlåtande nr 285 (2013), antaget av Europarådets  parlamentariska församling den 28 juni 2013, har kommit  överens om följande:
Artikel 1
1. De högsta domstolarna i en hög fördragsslutande part,  utsedda i enlighet med artikel 10, får begära att domstolen  lämnar rådgivande yttranden om principiella frågor som rör  tolkningen eller tillämpningen av de rättigheter och friheter  som definieras i konventionen eller dess protokoll.
2. Den begärande domstolen får endast ansöka om ett  rådgivande yttrande i samband med ett mål som är anhängigt vid  domstolen.
3. Den begärande domstolen ska motivera sin begäran  och uppge de relevanta rättsliga och faktiska omständigheterna  i det anhängiga målet.
Artikel 2
1. En panel med fem ledamöter av domstolen i stor  sammansättning bestämmer om den ska godta en begäran om  rådgivande yttrande med beaktande av artikel 1. Panelen ska  motivera varje beslut om att inte godta en begäran.
2. Om panelen godtar begäran, ska domstolen i stor  sammansättning lämna det rådgivande yttrandet.
3. Panelen och domstolen i stor sammansättning som  avses i föregående stycken innefattar automatiskt den domare  som valts för den höga fördragsslutande parten till vilken den  begärande domstolen hör. Om det inte finns någon sådan domare  eller om denne inte kan delta, ska en person utsedd av  domstolens ordförande från en lista som på förhand har ingetts  av denna part delta i egenskap av domare.
Artikel 3
Europarådets kommissionär för mänskliga rättigheter och den  höga fördragsslutande parten till vilken den begärande  domstolen hör har rätt att lämna skriftliga yttranden och  delta i muntliga förhandlingar. Domstolens ordförande får, för  att tillgodose intresset av en god rättskipning, inbjuda varje  annan hög fördragsslutande part eller person att också lämna  skriftliga yttranden eller delta i muntliga förhandlingar.
Artikel 4
1. Skäl ska anges för rådgivande yttranden.
2. Om det rådgivande yttrandet helt eller delvis inte  ger uttryck för ledamöternas enhälliga uppfattning, har varje  ledamot rätt att lämna sin särskilda mening.
3. Rådgivande yttranden överlämnas till den begärande  domstolen och till den höga fördragsslutande parten till  vilken domstolen hör.
4. Rådgivande yttranden ska offentliggöras.
Artikel 5
Rådgivande yttranden är inte bindande.
Artikel 6
Mellan de höga fördragsslutande parterna ska artiklarna 1 till 
5 anses som tillägg till konventionen och samtliga  bestämmelser i konventionen ska tilllämpas i enlighet därmed.
Artikel 7
1. Detta protokoll står öppet för undertecknande av de höga  fördragsslutande parterna till konventionen, vilka kan  uttrycka sitt samtycke till att vara bundna genom
a) undertecknande utan förbehåll för ratifikation,  godtagande eller godkännande, eller
b) undertecknande med förbehåll för ratifikation,  godtagande eller godkännande följt av ratifikation, godtagande  eller godkännande.
2. Ratifikations-, godtagande- eller  godkännandeinstrumenten ska deponeras hos Europarådets  generalsekreterare.
Artikel 8
1. Detta protokoll träder i kraft den första dagen i den månad  som följer efter utgången av en period om tre månader från den  dag då tio höga fördragsslutande parter till konventionen har  uttryckt sitt samtycke till att vara bundna av protokollet i  enlighet med bestämmelserna i artikel 7.
2. I förhållande till varje hög fördragsslutande part  som senare uttrycker sitt samtycke till att vara bunden av  protokollet träder det i kraft den första dagen i den månad  som följer efter utgången av en period av tre månader från den  dag då parten uttryckte sitt samtycke till att vara bunden av  protokollet i enlighet med bestämmelserna i artikel 7.
Artikel 9
Förbehåll enligt artikel 57 i konventionen får inte göras  beträffande bestämmelserna i detta protokoll.
Artikel 10
Varje hög fördragsslutande part till konventionen ska, vid  tidpunkten för undertecknandet eller vid deponeringen av sitt  ratifikations-, godtagande- eller godkännandeinstrument,  tillkännage, genom en förklaring ställd till Europarådets  generalsekreterare, vilka domstolar den utser med anledning av  artikel 1, första stycket, i detta protokoll. Denna förklaring  kan ändras när som helst med samma förfarande.
Artikel 11
Europarådets generalsekreterare ska underrätta Europarådets  medlemsstater och de övriga höga fördragsslutande parterna  till konventionen om
a) varje undertecknande,
b) deponeringen av varje ratifikations-, godtagande- eller  godkännandeinstrument,
c) varje dag för detta protokolls ikraftträdande  enligt artikel 8,
d) varje förklaring avgiven enligt artikel 10, och
e) varje annan handling, notifikation eller underrättelse  som rör detta protokoll.
Till bekräftelse härav har undertecknade, därtill  vederbörligen befullmäktigade, undertecknat detta protokoll.
Lag (2024:1077)
.
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.