Title: Lag (2005:456) om skatteavtal mellan Sverige och Nigeria
SFS Number: Svensk författningssamling 2005:456
URL: https://www.riksdagen.se/sv/dokument-och-lagar/dokument/svensk-forfattningssamling/lag-2005456-om-skatteavtal-mellan-sverige-och_sfs-2005-456/
Source Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfst?bet=2005:456
Amendment Register Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfsr?bet=2005:456
Ministry/Authority: Finansdepartementet S3
Issued: 2005-06-09
Metadata: {"Utfärdad": "2005-06-09", "Ändrad": "t.o.m. SFS 2014:1365"}

==================================================

Lag (2005:456) om skatteavtal mellan Sverige och Nigeria
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.
SFS nr
:     
2005:456
Departement/myndighet
:   
Finansdepartementet S3
Utfärdad
:   
2005-06-09
Ändrad
:   
t.o.m. SFS 2014:1365
Ändringsregister
:
SFSR (Regeringskansliet)
Källa
:
Fulltext (Regeringskansliet)
Innehåll:
Övergångsbestämmelser
1 §
Det avtal för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning och förhindrande av skatteflykt beträffande skatter på inkomst och på kapitalvinst som Konungariket Sverige och Federala Republiken Nigeria undertecknade den 18 november 2004 skall gälla som lag här i landet. Avtalet är avfattat på engelska språket. Den engelska texten och en svensk översättning av avtalet framgår av bilaga till denna lag.
2 §
Avtalets beskattningsregler skall tillämpas endast till den del dessa medför inskränkning av den skattskyldighet i Sverige som annars skulle föreligga.
3 §
Har utgått genom
lag (2011:1416)
.
4 §
Oberoende av bestämmelserna i artikel 8 i avtalet skall inkomst som förvärvas av en person med hemvist i Nigeria genom användning av skepp eller luftfartyg i internationell trafik inte beskattas i Sverige.
Övergångsbestämmelser
2005:456
1. Denna lag träder i kraft den dag regeringen bestämmer.
2. Denna lag skall tillämpas
a) beträffande källskatter, på inkomst som betalas eller tillgodoförs den 1 januari året efter det år då lagen träder i kraft eller senare, och
b) beträffande andra skatter, på beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari året efter det år då lagen träder i kraft eller senare.
Bilaga
(Översättning)
Agreement between the Kingdom of Sweden and the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and on capital gains
The Government of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, desiring to conclude an Agreement for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and on capital gains,
have agreed as follows:
Article 1
Persons covered
This Agreement shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States.
Article 2
Taxes covered
1. This Agreement shall apply to taxes on income and on capital gains imposed on behalf of a Contracting State or of its political subdivisions or local authorities, irrespective of the manner in which they are levied.
2. There shall be regarded as taxes on income and on capital gains all taxes imposed on total income, or on elements of income, including taxes on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property, as well as taxes on capital appreciation.
3. The existing taxes to which this Agreement shall apply are:
(a) in Nigeria:
(i) the Personal Income Tax;
(ii) the Companies Income Tax;
(iii) the Petroleum Profits Tax;
(iv) the Capital Gains Tax; and
(v) the Education Tax;
(hereinafter referred to as "Nigerian tax");
(b) in Sweden:
(i) the national income tax (den statliga inkomstskatten);
(ii) the withholding tax on dividends (kupongskatten);
(iii) the income tax on non-residents (den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta);
(iv) the income tax on non-resident artistes and athletes (den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta artister m.fl.);
and
(v) the municipal income tax (den kommunala inkomstskatten);
(hereinafter referred to as "Swedish tax").
4. The Agreement shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes which are imposed after the date of signature of the Agreement in addition to, or in place of, the taxes referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall notify each other of any significant changes which have been made in their respective taxation laws.
Article 3
General definitions
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) the term "Nigeria" means the Federal Republic of Nigeria including any area outside the territorial waters of the Federal Republic of Nigeria which in accordance with international law has been or may hereafter be designated, under the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria concerning the continental shelf, as an area within which the rights of the Federal Republic of Nigeria with respect to the sea-bed and subsoil and their natural resources may be exercised;
(b) the term "Sweden" means the Kingdom of Sweden and, when used in a geographical sense, includes the national territory, the territorial sea of Sweden as well as other maritime areas over which Sweden in accordance with international law exercises sovereign rights or jurisdiction;
(c) the terms "a Contracting State" and "the other Contracting State" mean Nigeria or Sweden, as the context requires;
(d) the term "person" includes an individual, a company and any other body of persons;
(e) the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity that is treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;
(f) the term "enterprise" applies to the carrying on of any business;
(g) the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and
"enterprise of the other Contracting State" mean respectively an enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the other Contracting State;
(h) the term "competent authority" means:
(i) in Nigeria, the Minister of Finance or his authorised representative;
(ii) in Sweden, the Minister of Finance, his authorised representative or the authority which is designated as a competent authority for the purposes of this Agreement;
(i) the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise of a Contracting State, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other Contracting State;
(j) the term "national" means:
(i) any individual possessing the citizenship or nationality of a Contracting State;
(ii) any legal person, partnership, association or other entity deriving its status as such from the laws in force in a Contracting State;
(k) the term "business" includes the performance of professional services and of other activities of an independent character.
2. As regards the application of this Agreement at any time by a Contracting State, any term not defined therein shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the meaning that it has at that time under the law of that State for the purposes of the taxes to which the Agreement applies, any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that State prevailing over a meaning given to the term under other laws of that State.
Article 4
Resident
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "resident of a Contracting State" means any person who, under the laws of that State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of management, place of incorporation or any other criterion of a similar nature, and also includes that State, any governmental body or agency, political subdivision or local authority thereof. This term, however, does not include any person who is liable to tax in that State in respect only of income from sources in that State or capital situated therein.
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his status shall be determined as follows:
(a) he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him; if he has a permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State with which his personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests);
(b) if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent home available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has an habitual abode;
(c) if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State of which he is a national;
(d) if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to settle the question by mutual agreement.
3. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article a person other than an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to settle the question by mutual agreement.
Article 5
Permanent establishment
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business through which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
2. The term "permanent establishment" includes especially:
(a) a place of management;
(b) a branch;
(c) an office;
(d) a factory;
(e) a workshop;
(f) a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources;
(g) a building site, a construction, assembly or installation project or supervisory activities in connection therewith, but only if such site, project or activities last more than six months; and
(h) the furnishing of services, including consultancy services, by an enterprise through employees or other personnel engaged by the enterprise for such purpose, but only if activities of that nature continue (for the same or a connected project)
within a Contracting State for a period or periods aggregating more than six months within any twelve-month period.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed not to include:
(a) the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage or display of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise;
(b) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storage or display;
(c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of processing by another enterprise;
(d) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or of collecting information, for the enterprise;
(e) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any other activity of a preparatory or auxiliary character;
(f) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in sub-paragraphs (a) to
(e) of this paragraph, provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this combination is of a preparatory or auxiliary character.
4. The term "permanent establishment" shall include a fixed place of business used as a sales outlet notwithstanding the fact that such fixed place of business is otherwise maintained for any of the activities mentioned in paragraph 3 of this Article.
5. An enterprise of a Contracting State shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State merely because it carries on business in that other State through a broker, general commission agent or any other agent of an independent status, provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business.
6. A person, other than an agent of an independent status to whom paragraph 5 of this Article applies, who acts in a Contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of the other Contracting State shall, unless the activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 3 of this Article which, if exercised through a fixed place of business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the provisions of that paragraph, be deemed to be a permanent establishment of that enterprise in the first-
mentioned State if:
(a) he has, and habitually exercises in that State, an authority to conclude contracts or carries on any business activities on behalf of the enterprise, or
(b) he habitually secures orders for the sales of goods or merchandise in that State exclusively or almost exclusively on behalf of the enterprise or other enterprises controlled by it or which have a controlling interest in it.
7. The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a permanent establishment or otherwise) shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.
Article 6
Income from immovable property
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture or forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracting State in which the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property, livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting landed property apply, buildings, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources; ships, boats and aircraft shall not be regarded as immovable property.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form of immovable property.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 of this Article shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise.
Article 7
Business profits
1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries on business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of them as is attributable to:
(a) that permanent establishment;
(b) sales in that other State of goods or merchandise of the same or similar kind as those sold through that permanent establishment; or
(c) other business activities carried on in that other State of the same or similar kind as those effected through that permanent establishment.
2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Article, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracting State be attributed to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly independently with the enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.
3. In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions expenses which are shown to have been incurred for the purposes of the business of the permanent establishment, including executive and general administrative expenses so incurred, whether in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere.
However, no such deduction shall be allowed in respect of amounts, if any, paid (otherwise than towards reimbursement of actual expenses) by the permanent establishment to the head office of the enterprise or any of its other offices, by way of royalties, fees or other similar payments in return for the use of patents or other rights, or by way of commission, for specific services performed or for management, or, except in the case of a banking enterprise, by way of interest on moneys lent to the permanent establishment. Likewise, no account shall be taken, in the determination of the profits of a permanent establishment, for amounts charged (otherwise than towards reimbursement of actual expenses) by the permanent establishment to the head office of the enterprise or any of its other offices, by way of royalties, fees or other similar payments in return for the use of patents or other rights, or by way of commission for specific services performed or for management, or, except in the case of a banking enterprise, by way of interest on moneys lent to the head office of the enterprise or any of its other offices.
4. No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent establishment of goods or merchandise for the enterprise. Provided that where that permanent establishment is also used as a sales outlet for the goods or merchandise so purchased the profits on such sales may be attributed to that permanent establishment. For the purpose of this paragraph sales outlet shall be deemed to have the same meaning as in paragraph 4 of Article 5.
5. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall be determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
6. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separately in other Articles of this Agreement, then the provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.
Article 8
Shipping and air transport
1. A resident of a Contracting State shall on reciprocal basis be exempt from tax in the other Contracting State in respect of profits or gains derived from the operations of ships or aircraft in international traffic.
2. With respect to profits derived by the air transport consortium Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS), the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply only to such part of the profits as corresponds to the participation held in that consortium by SAS Sverige AB, the Swedish partner of SAS.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall also apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint business or an international operating agency.
Article 9
Associated enterprises
1. Where:
(a) an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of the other Contracting State, or
(b) the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of a Contracting State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State,
and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or financial relations which differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but for those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have not so accrued, may be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.
2. Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of that State - and taxes accordingly - profits on which an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State and the profits so included are profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions made between the two enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other State shall make an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In determining such adjustment, due regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Agreement and the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall if necessary consult each other.
Article 10
Dividends
1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a resident and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the dividends is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed:
(a) 7.5 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends if the beneficial owner is a company (other than a partnership) which holds directly at least 10 per cent of the capital of the company paying the dividends;
(b) 10 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends in all other cases.
The competent authorities of the Contracting States may by mutual agreement settle the mode of application of these limitations.
This paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.
3. The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from shares or other rights, not being debt-claims, participating in profits, as well as income from other corporate rights which is subjected to the same taxation treatment as income from shares by the laws of the State of which the company making the distribution is a resident.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment. In such case the provisions of Article 7 shall apply.
5. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives profits or income from the other Contracting State, that other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such dividends are paid to a resident of that other State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively connected with a permanent establishment situated in that other State, nor subject the company's undistributed profits to a tax on the company's undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed profits consist wholly or partly of profits or income arising in such other State.
6. The provisions of this Article shall not apply if the right giving rise to the dividend was created or assigned mainly for the purpose of taking advantage of this Article and not for bona-fide commercial reasons.
Article 11
Interest
1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises, and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the interest is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed 7.5 per cent of the gross amount of the interest. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may by mutual agreement settle the mode of application of this limitation.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article, interest mentioned in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be taxable only in the Contracting State where the beneficial owner of the interest is a resident if one of the following requirements is fulfilled:
(a) the recipient of the interest is the Contracting State itself, a statutory body, a political subdivision, a local authority thereof or any other agency or instrumentality thereof; or
(b) the interest is paid in respect of a loan which has been guaranteed by the Government of the Contracting State where the payer of the interest is a resident; or
(c) in the case of Sweden, the interest is paid in respect of a loan granted or guaranteed by the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA), the Swedish Export Credit Corporation (SEK), Swedfund International AB, the Swedish Export Credits Guarantee Board (Exportkreditnämnden) or any other institution of a public character with the objective to promote exports or development.
4. The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from debt claims of every kind, whether or not secured by mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits, and in particular, income from government securities and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such securities, bonds or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purpose of this Article.
5. The provisions of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this Article shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanent establishment situated therein and the debt-claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment. In such case the provisions of Article 7 shall apply.
6. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment in connection with which the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was incurred, and such interest is borne by such permanent establishment, then such interest shall be deemed to arise in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated.
7. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt-
claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Agreement.
8. The provisions of this Article shall not apply if the right or property giving rise to the interest was created or assigned mainly for the purpose of taking advantage of this Article and not for bona-fide commercial reasons.
Article 12
Royalties
1. Royalties arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such royalties may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the royalties is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed 7.5 per cent of the gross amount of the royalties. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may by mutual agreement settle the mode of application of this limitation.
3. The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of, or the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph films and films or tapes for radio or television broadcasting, any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or for the use of, or the right to use industrial, commercial or scientific equipment, or for information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the royalties arise, through a permanent establishment situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the royalties are paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment. In such case the provisions of Article 7 shall apply.
5. Royalties shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the royalties, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment in connection with which the liability to pay the royalties was incurred, and such royalties are borne by such permanent establishment, then such royalties shall be deemed to arise in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated.
6. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and some other person, the amount of the royalties, having regard to the use, right or information for which they are paid, exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-
mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Agreement.
7. The provisions of this Article shall not apply if the right or property giving rise to the royalties was created or assigned mainly for the purpose of taking advantage of this Article and not for bona-fide commercial reasons.
Article 13
Capital gains
1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in Article 6 and situated in the other Contracting State, or from the alienation of shares in a company the assets of which consist principally of such property, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or with the whole enterprise), may be taxed in that other State.
3. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international traffic or movable property pertaining to the operation of such ships or aircraft, shall be taxable only in that State.
With respect to gains derived by the air transport consortium Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS), the provisions of this paragraph shall apply only to such part of the gains as corresponds to the participation held in that consortium by SAS Sverige AB, the Swedish partner of SAS.
4. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of shares in a company shall be taxable only in that State except if the alienator is an individual who has been a resident of the other Contracting State and who has become a resident of the first-mentioned Contracting State. In such case the gains may be taxed in the other Contracting State but only if the company, which shares are being alienated, is a resident of that other State and if the alienation of the shares occurs at any time during the ten years next following the date on which the individual has ceased to be a resident of that other State.
Article 14
Income from employment
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 15, 17 and 18, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment is exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is derived therefrom may be taxed in that other State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State if:
(a) the recipient is present in the other State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any twelve-
month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned;
and
(b) the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of the other State; and
(c) the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment which the employer has in the other State.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employment exercised aboard a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic by an enterprise of a Contracting State may be taxed in that State. Where a resident of Sweden derives remuneration in respect of an employment exercised aboard an aircraft operated in international traffic by the air transport consortium Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS), such remuneration shall be taxable only in Sweden.
Article 15
Directors' fees
Directors' fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member of the board of directors of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
Article 16
Artistes and sportspersons
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 14, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an artiste, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsperson, from his personal activities as such exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an artiste or a sportsperson in his capacity as such accrues not to the artiste or sportsperson himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 7 and 14, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the artiste or sportsperson are exercised.
Article 17
Pensions, annuities and similar payments
1. Pensions and other similar remuneration, disbursements under the Social Security legislation and annuities arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in the first-mentioned Contracting State.
2. The term "annuity" means a stated sum payable periodically at stated times during life or during a specified or ascertainable period of time under an obligation to make the payments in return for adequate and full consideration in money or money's worth.
Article 18
Government service
1. (a) Salaries, wages and other remuneration, other than a pension, paid by a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or authority shall be taxable only in that State.
(b) However, such salaries, wages and other remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the services are rendered in that other State and the individual is a resident of that State who:
(i) is a national of that State; or
(ii) did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
2. The provisions of Articles 14, 15 and 16 shall apply to remuneration in respect of services rendered in connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority thereof.
Article 19
Students and trainees
Payments which a student or business trainee or apprentice who is or was immediately before visiting a Contracting State a resident of the other Contracting State and who is present in the first-mentioned State solely for the purpose of his education or training receives for the purpose of his maintenance, education or training shall not be taxed in that State, provided that such payments arise from sources outside that State.
Article 20
Teachers and researchers
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 14, a professor or teacher who visits a Contracting State for the purpose of teaching or research at a university or any other similarly recognized educational institution in that State and who, immediately before that visit, was a resident of the other Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in the first-
mentioned State in respect of any remuneration for such teaching and research for a period not exceeding one year from the date of his first arrival in the first-mentioned State for such purposes, provided that such remuneration is derived by him from sources in the other Contracting State.
2. The provisions of this Article shall not apply to income from research if such research is undertaken not in the public interest but wholly or mainly for the benefit of a specific person or persons.
Article 21
Other income
1. Items of income of a resident of a Contracting State, wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this Agreement shall be taxable only in that State.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall not apply to income, other than income from immovable property as defined in paragraph 2 of Article 6, if the recipient of such income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the income is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment. In such case the provisions of Article 7 shall apply.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, items of income of a resident of a Contracting State not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this Agreement and arising in the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that other State.
Article 22
Elimination of double taxation
1. In the case of Nigeria:
Subject to the provisions of the laws of Nigeria regarding the allowance as a credit against Nigerian tax of tax payable in a territory outside Nigeria (which shall not affect the general principle thereof) Swedish tax payable under the laws of Sweden and in accordance with this Agreement, whether directly or by deduction, on profits, income or chargeable gains from sources within Sweden (excluding in the case of a dividend, tax payable in respect of the profits out of which dividend is paid) shall be allowed as a credit against any Nigerian tax computed by reference to the same profits, income or chargeable gains by reference to which Swedish tax is computed.
2. In the case of Sweden:
(a) Where a resident of Sweden derives income which under the laws of Nigeria and in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement may be taxed in Nigeria, Sweden shall allow - subject to the provisions of the laws of Sweden concerning credit for foreign tax (as it may be amended from time to time without changing the general principle hereof) - as a deduction from the tax on such income, an amount equal to the Nigerian tax paid in respect of such income.
(b) Where a resident of Sweden derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, shall be taxable only in Nigeria, Sweden may, when determining the graduated rate of Swedish tax, take into account the income which shall be taxable only in Nigeria.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, dividends paid by a company which is a resident of Nigeria to a company which is a resident of Sweden shall be exempt from Swedish tax according to the provisions of Swedish laws governing the exemption of tax on dividends paid to Swedish companies by companies abroad.
(d) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, when a Swedish company has a permanent establishment in Nigeria, the term "Nigerian tax paid" shall be deemed to include the Nigerian tax which would have been paid but for any reduction or time-limited exemption of tax granted under incentive provisions contained in Nigerian laws designed to promote economic development to the extent that such exemption or reduction is granted for profits from the export of Nigerian products, the mining industry, the installation, operation or maintenance of fixed or mobile telecommunication systems and related equipment, industrial and manufacturing activities, oil and gas industry as well as agriculture and tourism (including restaurants and hotels), provided that the activities have been carried out in Nigeria. For the purpose of sub-paragraph (c) of this paragraph, a tax of 15 per cent shall be considered to have been paid for such activities under those conditions mentioned in the previous sentence.
(e) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph the Nigerian tax paid in respect of royalties received as a consideration for the use of any patent, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or for information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience, shall, where it has been used in the export of Nigerian products, the mining industry, the installation, operation or maintenance of fixed or mobile telecommunication systems and related equipment, industrial and manufacturing activities, oil and gas industry as well as agriculture and tourism (including restaurants and hotels), provided that the activities have been carried out in Nigeria, in addition to the Nigerian tax actually paid be considered to have been paid with an additional amount of 5 per cent, or if no such tax has been charged be considered to have been paid with 5 per cent, of the gross amount of such royalties.
(f) The provisions of sub-paragraphs (d) and (e) shall apply only for the first ten years during which this Agreement is effective. This period may be extended by a mutual agreement between the competent authorities.
Article 23
Non-discrimination
1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any requirement connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to which nationals of that other State in the same circumstances are or may be subjected.
This provision shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1, also apply to persons who are not residents of one or both of the Contracting States.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State shall not be less favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State carrying on the same activities. This provision shall not be construed as obliging a Contracting State to grant to residents of the other Contracting State any personal allowances, reliefs or reductions for taxation purposes on account of civil status or family responsibilities which it grants to its own residents.
3. Except where the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 9, paragraph 7 of Article 11, or paragraph 6 of Article 12, apply, interest, royalties and other disbursements paid by an enterprise of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable profits of such enterprise, be deductible under the same conditions as if they had been paid to a resident of the first-mentioned State.
4. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subject in the first-mentioned State to any taxation or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.
5. The provisions of this Article shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 2, apply to taxes of every kind and description.
Article 24
Mutual agreement procedure
1. Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, he may, irrespective of the remedies provided by the domestic law of those States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he is a resident or, if his case comes under paragraph 1 of Article 23, to that of the Contracting State of which he is a national. The case must be presented within six years from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement.
2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arrive at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other Contracting State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Agreement. Any agreement reached shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the domestic law of the Contracting States.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of the Agreement. They may also consult together for the elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in the Agreement.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purpose of reaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs.
Article 25
Exchange of information
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information as is necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Agreement or of the domestic laws concerning taxes of every kind and description imposed on behalf of the Contracting States, or of their political subdivisions or local authorities, insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to the Agreement. The exchange of information is not restricted by Articles 1 and 2. Any information received by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner as information obtained under the domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities (including courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or prosecution in respect of, or the determination of appeals in relation to the taxes referred to in the first sentence. Such persons or authorities shall use the information only for such purposes. They may disclose the information in public court proceedings or in judicial decisions. The competent authorities may through consultation, develop appropriate conditions, methods and techniques concerning the matters in respect of which such exchanges of information shall be made including, where appropriate, exchanges of information regarding tax avoidance.
2. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation:
(a) to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the other Contracting State;
(b) to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration of that or of the other Contracting State;
(c) to supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional secret or trade process, or information, the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy (ordre public).
Article 26
Limitations on benefits
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, where:
(a) a company that is a resident of a Contracting State derives its income primarily from other States
(i) from activities such as banking, shipping, financing or insurance or
(ii) from being the headquarters, co-ordination centre or similar entity providing administrative services or other support to a group of companies which carry on business primarily in other States; and
(b) such income would bear a significantly lower tax under the laws of that State than income from similar activities carried out within that State or from being the headquarters, co-
ordination centre or similar entity providing administrative services or other support to a group of companies which carry on business in that State, as the case may be,
any provisions of this Agreement conferring an exemption or a reduction of tax shall not apply to the income of such company or to the dividends paid by such company.
Article 27
Members of diplomatic missions and consular posts
Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the fiscal privileges of members of diplomatic missions and consular posts under the general rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
Article 28
Entry into force
1. Each of the Contracting States shall notify the other of the completion of the procedures required by its laws for the entry into force of this Agreement.
2. The Agreement shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the receipt of the later of these notifications and shall thereupon have effect:
(a) in Nigeria:
(i) in respect of withholding tax on income and taxes on capital gains derived by a non-resident, in relation to income and capital gains derived on or after the first day of January in the calendar year immediately following that in which the Agreement enters into force;
(ii) in respect of other taxes, in relation to income of any basis period beginning on or after the first day of January in the calendar year immediately following that in which the Agreement enters into force;
(b) in Sweden:
(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited on or after the first day of January of the year next following the date on which the Agreement enters into force;
(ii) in respect of other taxes on income and on capital gains, on taxes chargeable for any tax year beginning on or after the first day of January of the year next following the date on which the Agreement enters into force.
Article 29
Termination
This Agreement shall remain in force until terminated by a Contracting State. Either Contracting State may terminate the Agreement, through diplomatic channels, by giving written notice of termination at least six months before the end of any calendar year. In such case, the Agreement shall cease to have effect:
(a) in Nigeria:
(i) in respect of withholding tax on income and taxes on capital gains derived by a non-resident, in relation to income and capital gains derived on or after the first day of January in the calendar year immediately following the end of the six-
month period;
(ii) in respect of other taxes, in relation to income of any basis period beginning on or after the first day of January in the calendar year immediately following the end of the six-
month period;
(b) in Sweden:
(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited on or after the first day of January of the year next following the end of the six-month period;
(ii) in respect of other taxes on income and on capital gains, on income chargeable for any tax year beginning on or after the first day of January of the year next following the end of the six-month period.
In witness whereof the undersigned being duly authorised thereto have signed this Agreement.
Done at Stockholm, this 18th day of November, 2004, in duplicate in the English language.
For the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden
Thomas Östros
For the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
Alhaji Abubakar A. Tanko
Protocol to the Agreement between the Kingdom of Sweden and the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and on capital gains
At the moment of signing the Agreement for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and on capital gains between the Kingdom of Sweden and the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the Contracting States have agreed that the following provisions shall form an integral part of the Agreement:
Article 5
1. It is agreed that if any agreement or convention between Nigeria and a member state of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) provides for a longer time period than any of those provided for in sub-paragraph (g) or
(h) of paragraph 2 of Article 5 (either generally or in respect of specific activities), such longer time period or periods shall automatically apply (either generally or in respect of specific activities) if a resident of Nigeria carries on any such activities in Sweden or if a resident of Sweden carries on any such activities in Nigeria, under the same conditions as if such longer time period or periods had been specified in those sub-paragraphs.
2. It is agreed that if in any agreement or convention between Nigeria and a member state of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) signed after the signing of this Agreement the word "delivery" is included in a provision or provisions corresponding to sub-paragraph (a) or sub-
paragraph (b) of paragraph 3 of Article 5, or both sub-
paragraphs, sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph 3 of Article 5 of this Agreement shall automatically be applied as if the word "delivery" had been so included from the same time when the agreement or convention between Nigeria and the third state becomes effective.
Article 7
It is agreed that the provisions of sub-paragraphs (b) and (c)
of paragraph 1 of Article 7 shall apply only where sales and business activities are effected directly by the enterprise in the other Contracting State through other outlets than the permanent establishment for the purpose of depleting the profits that would otherwise have been attributable to the permanent establishment and
(i) the profits of the permanent establishment are not determined on the basis of the total amount received by the enterprise, but are determined on the basis of the remuneration which it is expected to make if it were a distinct and independent enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions;
(ii) the profits of such permanent establishment are not determined on the basis of the total amount of the contract, but are determined on the basis of that part of the contract which is effectively carried out by the permanent establishment.
Article 8
1. If the competent authorities of the Contracting States by mutual agreement conclude that profits are derived by a resident or residents of a Contracting State from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic to or from places in the other Contracting State and that such profits are not derived by a resident or residents of the other Contracting State from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic to or from places in the first-mentioned State, and that such situation has a permanent nature, then the condition of reciprocity envisaged in paragraph 1 of Article 8 for tax exemption is not met. In such case the tax charged shall not exceed 1 per cent of the earnings of the enterprise derived from the other Contracting State. For the purpose of the foregoing sentence, the term "earnings" means income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the carriage of passengers, mail, livestock or goods boarded or loaded in the other Contracting State, less refunds and payments of wages and salaries of ground staff and excluding income derived from the carriage of passengers, mail, livestock or goods which are brought to that other State solely for transhipments or transfers.
2. If any agreement or convention for the avoidance of double taxation, or protocol thereto, or any other international arrangement concluded after the date of the signing of this Agreement between Nigeria and a third State provides for rates of taxation (including nil rates) on the profits derived from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic which are lower than the rate provided for under this Protocol, then the same lower rate shall apply under this Agreement and shall have effect from the latter of the dates of which this Agreement or the relevant convention, agreement, protocol or other international arrangement between Nigeria and a third state becomes effective.
Articles 10, 11 and 12
In respect of paragraph 6 of Article 10, paragraph 8 of Article 11 and paragraph 7 of Article 12, it is agreed that when a Contracting State contemplates to deny benefits to a resident of the other Contracting State, the competent authorities should consult with each other.
It is agreed that if any agreement or convention between Nigeria and a member state of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) provides that Nigeria shall exempt from tax dividends, interest or royalties (either generally or in respect of specific categories of dividends, interest or royalties) arising in Nigeria, or limit the tax charged in Nigeria on such dividends, interest or royalties
(either generally or in respect of specific categories of dividends, interest or royalties) to a rate lower than that provided for in sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 2 of Article 10, paragraph 2 of Article 11 or paragraph 2 of Article 12 of the Agreement, such exemption or lower rate shall automatically apply to dividends, interest or royalties (either generally or in respect of those specific categories of dividends, interest or royalties) arising in Nigeria and beneficially owned by a resident of Sweden and dividends, interest or royalties (either generally or in respect of those specific categories of dividends, interest or royalties) arising in Sweden and beneficially owned by a resident of Nigeria, under the same conditions as if such exemption or lower rate had been specified in those sub-paragraph or paragraphs.
In witness whereof the undersigned being duly authorised thereto have signed this Protocol.
Done at Stockholm, this 18th day of November, 2004, in duplicate in the English language.
For the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden
Thomas Östros
For the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
Alhaji Abubakar A. Tanko
Avtal mellan Konungariket Sverige och Federala Republiken Nigeria för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning och förhindrande av skatteflykt beträffande skatter på inkomst och på kapitalvinst
Konungariket Sveriges regering och Federala Republiken Nigerias regering, som önskar ingå ett avtal för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning och förhindrande av skatteflykt beträffande skatter på inkomst och på kapitalvinst,
har kommit överens om följande:
Artikel 1
Personer på vilka avtalet tillämpas
Detta avtal tillämpas på personer som har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat eller i båda avtalsslutande staterna.
Artikel 2
Skatter som omfattas av avtalet
1. Detta avtal tillämpas på skatter på inkomst och på kapitalvinst som påförs för en avtalsslutande stats, dess politiska underavdelningars eller lokala myndigheters räkning, oberoende av det sätt på vilket skatterna tas ut.
2. Med skatter på inkomst och på kapitalvinst förstås alla skatter som tas ut på inkomst i dess helhet, eller på delar av inkomst, däri inbegripet skatter på vinst på grund av överlåtelse av lös eller fast egendom samt skatter på värdestegring.
3. De för närvarande utgående skatter på vilka detta avtal tillämpas är:
a) i Nigeria:
1) den personliga inkomstskatten,
2) bolagsskatten,
3) skatten på petroleumvinster,
4) skatten på kapitalvinster, och
5) utbildningsskatten,
(i det följande benämnda "nigeriansk skatt"),
b) i Sverige:
1) den statliga inkomstskatten,
2) kupongskatten,
3) den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta,
4) den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta artister m.fl., och
5) den kommunala inkomstskatten,
(i det följande benämnda "svensk skatt").
4. Avtalet tillämpas även på skatter av samma eller i huvudsak likartat slag, som efter undertecknandet av avtalet påförs vid sidan av eller i stället för de i punkt 3 i denna artikel nämnda skatterna. De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna skall meddela varandra de väsentliga ändringar som gjorts i respektive skattelagstiftning.
Artikel 3
Allmänna definitioner
1. Om inte sammanhanget föranleder annat, har vid tillämpningen av detta avtal följande uttryck nedan angiven betydelse:
a) "Nigeria" avser Federala Republiken Nigeria, innefattande varje område utanför Federala Republiken Nigerias territorialvatten som i överensstämmelse med folkrättens regler utgör eller i framtiden kommer att utgöra, i enlighet med Federala Republiken Nigerias lagstiftning beträffande kontinentalsockeln, ett område inom vilket Federala Republiken Nigerias rättigheter avseende havsbottnen, dess underlag och dess naturtillgångar kan utövas,
b) "Sverige" avser Konungariket Sverige och innefattar när det används i geografisk betydelse Sveriges territorium, Sveriges territorialvatten och andra havsområden över vilka Sverige, i överensstämmelse med folkrättens regler, utövar suveräna rättigheter eller jurisdiktion,
c) "en avtalsslutande stat" och "den andra avtalsslutande staten" avser Nigeria eller Sverige, beroende på sammanhanget,
d) "person" inbegriper fysisk person, bolag och annan sammanslutning,
e) "bolag" avser juridisk person eller annan som vid beskattningen behandlas som en juridisk person,
f) "företag" avser bedrivandet av varje form av rörelse,
g) "företag i en avtalsslutande stat" och "företag i den andra avtalsslutande staten" avser företag som bedrivs av person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat respektive företag som bedrivs av person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten,
h) "behörig myndighet" avser:
1) i Nigeria, finansministern eller dennes befullmäktigade ombud,
2) i Sverige, finansministern, dennes befullmäktigade ombud eller den myndighet åt vilken uppdras att vara behörig myndighet vid tillämpningen av detta avtal,
i) "internationell trafik" avser transport med skepp eller luftfartyg som används av ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat utom då skeppet eller luftfartyget används uteslutande mellan platser i den andra avtalsslutande staten,
j) "medborgare" avser:
1) fysisk person som har medborgarskap i en avtalsslutande stat,
2) juridisk person, handelsbolag, association eller annan sammanslutning som bildats enligt den lagstiftning som gäller i en avtalsslutande stat,
k) "rörelse" innefattar utövandet av fritt yrke och annan självständig verksamhet.
2. Då en avtalsslutande stat tillämpar avtalet vid en viss tidpunkt anses, såvida inte sammanhanget föranleder annat, varje uttryck som inte definierats i avtalet ha den betydelse som uttrycket har vid denna tidpunkt enligt den statens lagstiftning i fråga om sådana skatter på vilka avtalet tillämpas och skall den betydelse uttrycket har enligt gällande skattelagstiftning i nämnda stat äga företräde framför den betydelse uttrycket har enligt någon annan lagstiftning i denna stat.
Artikel 4
Hemvist
1. Vid tillämpningen av detta avtal avser uttrycket "person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat" person som enligt lagstiftningen i denna stat är skattskyldig där på grund av domicil, bosättning, plats för företagsledning, bolagsbildning eller annan liknande omständighet och innefattar också denna stat, dess offentligrättsliga organ eller institutioner, politiska underavdelningar eller lokala myndigheter. Detta uttryck inbegriper emellertid inte person som är skattskyldig i denna stat endast för inkomst från källa i denna stat eller för förmögenhet belägen där.
2. Då på grund av bestämmelserna i punkt 1 i denna artikel fysisk person har hemvist i båda avtalsslutande staterna, bestäms hans hemvist på följande sätt:
a) han anses ha hemvist endast i den stat där han har en bostad som stadigvarande står till hans förfogande. Om han har en sådan bostad i båda staterna, anses han ha hemvist endast i den stat med vilken hans personliga och ekonomiska förbindelser är starkast (centrum för levnadsintressena),
b) om det inte kan avgöras i vilken stat han har centrum för sina levnadsintressen eller om han inte i någondera staten har en bostad som stadigvarande står till hans förfogande, anses han ha hemvist endast i den stat där han stadigvarande vistas,
c) om han stadigvarande vistas i båda staterna eller inte vistas stadigvarande i någon av dem, anses han ha hemvist endast i den stat där han är medborgare,
d) om han är medborgare i båda staterna eller inte är medborgare i någon av dem, skall de behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna söka avgöra frågan genom ömsesidig överenskommelse.
3. Då på grund av bestämmelserna i punkt 1 i denna artikel annan person än fysisk person har hemvist i båda avtalsslutande staterna, skall de behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna söka avgöra frågan genom ömsesidig överenskommelse.
Artikel 5
Fast driftställe
1. Vid tillämpningen av detta avtal avser uttrycket "fast driftställe" en stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet, från vilken ett företags verksamhet helt eller delvis bedrivs.
2. Uttrycket "fast driftställe" innefattar särskilt:
a) plats för företagsledning,
b) filial,
c) kontor,
d) fabrik,
e) verkstad,
f) gruva, olje- eller gaskälla, stenbrott eller annan plats för utvinning av naturtillgångar,
g) plats för byggnads-, anläggnings-, monterings- eller installationsverksamhet och verksamhet som består av övervakning i anslutning därtill, men endast om verksamheten pågår längre tid än sex månader, och
h) tillhandahållandet av tjänster, inklusive konsulttjänster, av ett företag genom anställda eller annan personal som anlitas av företaget för sådant ändamål, men endast om sådan verksamhet pågår (avseende samma eller en därtill hörande verksamhet) inom en avtalsslutande stat under en tidsperiod eller tidsperioder som sammanlagt överstiger sex månader inom en tolvmånadersperiod.
3. Utan hinder av föregående bestämmelser i denna artikel anses uttrycket "fast driftställe" inte innefatta:
a) användningen av anordningar uteslutande för lagring eller utställning av företaget tillhöriga varor,
b) innehavet av ett företaget tillhörigt varulager uteslutande för lagring eller utställning,
c) innehavet av ett företaget tillhörigt varulager uteslutande för bearbetning eller förädling genom annat företags försorg,
d) innehavet av stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet uteslutande för inköp av varor eller inhämtande av upplysningar för företaget,
e) innehavet av en stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet uteslutande för att för företaget bedriva annan verksamhet av förberedande eller biträdande art,
f) innehavet av en stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet uteslutande för någon kombination av verksamheter som anges i a) till e) ovan, under förutsättning att hela den verksamhet som bedrivs vid den stadigvarande platsen för affärsverksamhet på grund av denna kombination är av förberedande eller biträdande art.
4. Uttrycket "fast driftställe" skall anses innefatta en stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet som används som försäljningsställe oavsett om denna stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet i övrigt används för verksamheter som anges i punkt 3 i denna artikel.
5. Företag i en avtalsslutande stat anses inte ha fast driftställe i den andra avtalsslutande staten endast på den grund att företaget bedriver affärsverksamhet i denna stat genom förmedling av mäklare, kommissionär eller annan oberoende representant, under förutsättning att sådana personer därvid bedriver sin sedvanliga affärsverksamhet.
6. En person, som inte är en sådan oberoende representant på vilken punkt 5 i denna artikel tillämpas, och som är verksam i en avtalsslutande stat för ett företag i den andra avtalsslutande staten skall, om inte den verksamhet som personen bedriver är begränsad till sådan som anges i punkt 3 i denna artikel och som, om den bedrevs från en stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet, inte skulle göra denna stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet till fast driftställe enligt bestämmelserna i nämnda punkt, anses utgöra ett fast driftställe för detta företag i den förstnämnda staten om:
a) personen har och i denna stat regelmässigt använder fullmakt att sluta avtal eller där bedriver affärsverksamhet i företagets namn, eller
b) personen regelmässigt säkrar order för försäljning av varor i denna stat uteslutande eller nästan uteslutande för detta företags räkning eller andra företag som kontrolleras av det eller innehar en kontrollerande andel av det.
7. Den omständigheten att ett bolag med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat kontrollerar eller kontrolleras av ett bolag med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten eller ett bolag som bedriver affärsverksamhet i denna andra stat
(antingen från fast driftställe eller på annat sätt), medför inte i och för sig att någotdera bolaget utgör fast driftställe för det andra.
Artikel 6
Inkomst av fast egendom
1. Inkomst, som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar av fast egendom (däri inbegripet inkomst av lantbruk eller skogsbruk) belägen i den andra avtalsslutande staten, får beskattas i denna andra stat.
2. Uttrycket "fast egendom" har den betydelse som uttrycket har enligt lagstiftningen i den avtalsslutande stat där egendomen är belägen. Uttrycket inbegriper dock alltid tillbehör till fast egendom, levande och döda inventarier i lantbruk och skogsbruk, rättigheter på vilka bestämmelserna i privaträtten om fast egendom tillämpas, byggnader, nyttjanderätt till fast egendom samt rätt till föränderliga eller fasta ersättningar för nyttjandet av eller rätten att nyttja mineralförekomst, källa eller annan naturtillgång. Skepp, båtar och luftfartyg anses inte vara fast egendom.
3. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 i denna artikel tillämpas på inkomst som förvärvas genom omedelbart brukande, genom uthyrning eller annan användning av fast egendom.
4. Bestämmelserna i punkterna 1 och 3 i denna artikel tillämpas även på inkomst av fast egendom som tillhör företag.
Artikel 7
Inkomst av rörelse
1. Inkomst av rörelse, som företag i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar, beskattas endast i denna stat, såvida inte företaget bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten från där beläget fast driftställe. Om företaget bedriver rörelse på nyss angivet sätt, får företagets inkomst beskattas i den andra staten, men endast så stor del därav som är hänförlig till:
a) det fasta driftstället,
b) försäljning i denna andra stat av varor av samma eller liknande slag som de som säljs genom det fasta driftstället, eller
c) annan affärsverksamhet som bedrivs i denna andra stat vilken är av samma eller liknande slag som den som bedrivs genom det fasta driftstället.
2. Om företag i en avtalsslutande stat bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten från där beläget fast driftställe hänförs, om inte bestämmelserna i punkt 3 i denna artikel föranleder annat, i vardera avtalsslutande staten till det fasta driftstället den inkomst som det kan antas att driftstället skulle ha förvärvat, om det varit ett fristående företag, som bedrivit verksamhet av samma eller liknande slag under samma eller liknande villkor och självständigt avslutat affärer med det företag till vilket driftstället hör.
3. Vid bestämmandet av fast driftställes inkomst medges avdrag för utgifter som kan visas ha uppkommit för det fasta driftstället, härunder inbegripna utgifter för företagets ledning och allmänna förvaltning, oavsett om utgifterna uppkommit i den stat där det fasta driftstället är beläget eller annorstädes. Avdrag medges emellertid inte för belopp, om något, som det fasta driftstället betalat till företagets huvudkontor eller något av dess andra kontor (om inte beloppen utgör ersättning för faktiska utgifter) i form av royalty, avgifter eller andra liknande betalningar för nyttjandet av patent eller andra rättigheter, eller i form av ersättning för särskilda tjänster eller för företagsledning, eller, utom i fråga om bankföretag, i form av ränta på kapital utlånat till det fasta driftstället. På samma sätt skall, vid bestämmandet av det fasta driftställets inkomst, inte beaktas belopp som det fasta driftstället debiterat företagets huvudkontor eller något av dess andra kontor (om inte beloppen utgör ersättning för faktiska utgifter) i form av royalty, avgifter eller andra liknande betalningar för nyttjandet av patent eller andra rättigheter, eller i form av ersättning för särskilda tjänster eller företagsledning, eller, utom i fråga om bankföretag, i form av ränta på kapital utlånat till företagets huvudkontor eller något annat av dess kontor.
4. Inkomst hänförs inte till fast driftställe endast av den anledningen att varor inköps genom det fasta driftställets försorg för företaget. Detta gäller under förutsättning att, i fall då det fasta driftstället även används som försäljningsställe för de varor som köps in, inkomster som uppkommer vid sådan försäljning hänförs till det fasta driftstället. Vid tillämpningen av denna punkt skall uttrycket försäljningsställe anses ha samma innebörd som i artikel 5 punkt 4.
5. Vid tillämpningen av föregående punkter bestäms inkomst som är hänförlig till det fasta driftstället genom samma förfarande år från år, såvida inte goda och tillräckliga skäl föranleder annat.
6. Ingår i inkomst av rörelse inkomst som behandlas särskilt i andra artiklar av detta avtal, berörs bestämmelserna i dessa artiklar inte av bestämmelserna i denna artikel
Artikel 8
Sjöfart och luftfart
1. En person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat skall, under förutsättning av ömsesidighet, undantas från beskattning i den andra avtalsslutande staten på inkomst eller vinst som förvärvas genom användningen av skepp eller luftfartyg i internationell trafik.
2. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 i denna artikel tillämpas på inkomst som förvärvas av luftfartskonsortiet Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) men endast i fråga om den del av inkomsten som motsvarar den andel av konsortiet som innehas av SAS Sverige AB, den svenske delägaren i SAS.
3. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 i denna artikel tillämpas även på inkomster som förvärvas genom deltagande i en pool, ett gemensamt företag eller en internationell driftsorganisation.
Artikel 9
Företag med intressegemenskap
1. I fall då
a) ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat direkt eller indirekt deltar i ledningen eller kontrollen av ett företag i den andra avtalsslutande staten eller äger del i detta företags kapital, eller
b) samma personer direkt eller indirekt deltar i ledningen eller kontrollen av såväl ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat som ett företag i den andra avtalsslutande staten eller äger del i båda dessa företags kapital, iakttas följande.
Om mellan företagen i fråga om handelsförbindelser eller finansiella förbindelser avtalas eller föreskrivs villkor, som avviker från dem som skulle ha avtalats mellan av varandra oberoende företag, får all inkomst, som utan sådana villkor skulle ha tillkommit det ena företaget men som på grund av villkoren i fråga inte tillkommit detta företag, inräknas i detta företags inkomst och beskattas i överensstämmelse därmed.
2. I fall då en avtalsslutande stat i inkomsten för ett företag i denna stat inräknar - och i överensstämmelse därmed beskattar
- inkomst, för vilken ett företag i den andra avtalsslutande staten beskattats i denna andra stat, samt den sålunda inräknade inkomsten är sådan som skulle ha tillkommit företaget i den förstnämnda staten om de villkor som avtalats mellan företagen hade varit sådana som skulle ha avtalats mellan av varandra oberoende företag, skall denna andra stat genomföra vederbörlig justering av det skattebelopp som påförts för inkomsten där. Vid sådan justering iakttas övriga bestämmelser i detta avtal och de behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna överlägger vid behov med varandra.
Artikel 10
Utdelning
1. Utdelning från bolag med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat till person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten får beskattas i denna andra stat.
2. Utdelningen får emellertid beskattas även i den avtalsslutande stat där bolaget som betalar utdelningen har hemvist, enligt lagstiftningen i denna stat. Om den som har rätt till utdelningen har hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten får skatten inte överstiga:
a) 7,5 procent av utdelningens bruttobelopp, om den som har rätt till utdelningen är ett bolag (med undantag för handelsbolag) som direkt innehar minst 10 procent av det utbetalande bolagets kapital,
b) 10 procent av utdelningens bruttobelopp i övriga fall.
De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna kan träffa överenskommelse om sättet att genomföra dessa begränsningar.
Denna punkt berör inte bolagets beskattning för den vinst av vilken utdelningen betalas.
3. Med uttrycket "utdelning" förstås i denna artikel inkomst av aktier eller andra rättigheter, som inte är fordringar, med rätt till andel i vinst, samt inkomst av andra rättigheter i bolag som enligt lagstiftningen i den stat där det utdelande bolaget har hemvist vid beskattningen behandlas på samma sätt som inkomst av aktier.
4. Bestämmelserna i punkterna 1 och 2 i denna artikel tillämpas inte, om den som har rätt till utdelningen har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat och bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten, där bolaget som betalar utdelningen har hemvist, från där beläget fast driftställe, samt den andel på grund av vilken utdelningen betalas äger verkligt samband med det fasta driftstället. I sådant fall tillämpas bestämmelserna i artikel 7.
5. Om bolag med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar inkomst från den andra avtalsslutande staten, får denna andra stat inte beskatta utdelning som bolaget betalar, utom i den mån utdelningen betalas till person med hemvist i denna andra stat eller i den mån den andel på grund av vilken utdelningen betalas äger verkligt samband med fast driftställe i denna andra stat, och ej heller på bolagets icke utdelade vinst ta ut en skatt som utgår på bolagets icke utdelade vinst, även om utdelningen eller den icke utdelade vinsten helt eller delvis utgörs av inkomst som uppkommit i denna andra stat.
6. Bestämmelserna i denna artikel skall inte tillämpas om den rättighet som givit upphov till utdelningen bildats eller placerats huvudsakligen i syfte att uppnå fördelar i denna artikel och inte av verkliga affärsmässiga skäl.
Artikel 11
Ränta
1. Ränta, som härrör från en avtalsslutande stat och som betalas till person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten, får beskattas i denna andra stat.
2. Räntan får emellertid beskattas även i den avtalsslutande stat från vilken den härrör, enligt lagstiftningen i denna stat, men om den som har rätt till räntan har hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten får skatten inte överstiga 7,5 procent av räntans bruttobelopp. De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna kan träffa överenskommelse om sättet att genomföra denna begränsning.
3. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i punkt 2 i denna artikel skall ränta som anges i punkt 1 i denna artikel beskattas endast i den avtalsslutande stat i vilken den som har rätt till räntan har hemvist om någon av följande förutsättningar är uppfyllda:
a) mottagaren av räntan är en avtalsslutande stat, ett av dess offentligrättsliga organ eller en av dess politiska underavdelningar, lokala myndigheter eller någon annan av dess institutioner eller organ, eller
b) räntan betalas på grund av ett lån som har garanterats av regeringen i den avtalsslutande stat där den som betalar räntan har hemvist, eller
c) beträffande Sverige, räntan betalas på grund av ett lån som beviljats eller garanterats av Styrelsen för internationellt utvecklingssamarbete (SIDA), AB Svensk Exportkredit (SEK), Swedfund International AB, Exportkreditnämnden (EKN) eller annan institution av offentligrättslig natur med syfte att främja export eller utveckling.
4. Med uttrycket "ränta" förstås i denna artikel inkomst av varje slags fordran, antingen den säkerställts genom inteckning i fast egendom eller inte och antingen den medför rätt till andel i gäldenärens vinst eller inte. Uttrycket åsyftar särskilt inkomst av värdepapper som utfärdats av staten och inkomst av obligationer eller debentures, däri inbegripet agiobelopp och vinster som hänför sig till sådana värdepapper, obligationer eller debentures. Straffavgift på grund av sen betalning anses inte som ränta vid tillämpningen av denna artikel.
5. Bestämmelserna i punkterna 1, 2 och 3 i denna artikel tillämpas inte, om den som har rätt till räntan har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat och bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten, från vilken räntan härrör, från där beläget fast driftställe, samt den fordran för vilken räntan betalas äger verkligt samband med det fasta driftstället. I sådant fall tillämpas bestämmelserna i artikel 7.
6. Ränta anses härröra från en avtalsslutande stat om utbetalaren är en person med hemvist i denna stat. Om emellertid den person som betalar räntan, antingen han har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat eller inte, i en avtalsslutande stat har fast driftställe i samband med vilket den skuld uppkommit för vilken räntan betalas, och räntan belastar det fasta driftstället, anses räntan härröra från den stat där det fasta driftstället finns.
7. Då på grund av särskilda förbindelser mellan utbetalaren och den som har rätt till räntan eller mellan dem båda och annan person räntebeloppet, med hänsyn till den fordran för vilken räntan betalas, överstiger det belopp som skulle ha avtalats mellan utbetalaren och den som har rätt till räntan om sådana förbindelser inte förelegat, tillämpas bestämmelserna i denna artikel endast på sistnämnda belopp. I sådant fall beskattas överskjutande belopp enligt lagstiftningen i vardera avtalsslutande staten med iakttagande av övriga bestämmelser i detta avtal.
8. Bestämmelserna i denna artikel skall inte tillämpas om den rättighet eller den egendom som givit upphov till räntan tillskapats eller placerats huvudsakligen i syfte att uppnå fördelar i denna artikel och inte på grund av verkliga affärsmässiga skäl.
Artikel 12
Royalty
1. Royalty, som härrör från en avtalsslutande stat och som betalas till person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten, får beskattas i denna andra stat.
2. Royaltyn får emellertid beskattas även i den avtalsslutande stat från vilken den härrör, enligt lagstiftningen i denna stat, men om den som har rätt till royaltyn har hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten får skatten inte överstiga 7,5 procent av royaltyns bruttobelopp. De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna kan träffa överenskommelse om sättet att genomföra denna begränsning.
3. Med uttrycket "royalty" förstås i denna artikel varje slags betalning som tas emot såsom ersättning för nyttjandet av eller för rätten att nyttja upphovsrätt till litterärt, konstnärligt eller vetenskapligt verk, häri inbegripet biograffilm eller film eller band för radio- eller televisionsutsändning, patent, varumärke, mönster eller modell, ritning, hemligt recept eller hemlig tillverkningsmetod eller för nyttjandet av eller för rätten att nyttja industriell, kommersiell eller vetenskaplig utrustning eller för upplysning om erfarenhetsrön av industriell, kommersiell eller vetenskaplig natur.
4. Bestämmelserna i punkterna 1 och 2 i denna artikel tillämpas inte, om den som har rätt till royaltyn har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat och bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten, från vilken royaltyn härrör, från där beläget fast driftställe, samt den rät-tighet eller egendom i fråga om vilken royaltyn betalas äger verkligt samband med det fasta driftstället. I sådant fall tillämpas bestämmelserna i artikel 7.
5. Royalty anses härröra från en avtalsslutande stat om utbetalaren är en person med hemvist i denna stat. Om emellertid den person som betalar royaltyn, antingen han har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat eller inte, i en avtalsslutande stat har fast driftställe i samband varmed skyldigheten att betala royaltyn uppkommit, och royaltyn belastar det fasta driftstället, anses royaltyn härröra från den stat där det fasta driftstället finns.
6. Då på grund av särskilda förbindelser mellan utbetalaren och den som har rätt till royaltyn eller mellan dem båda och annan person royaltybeloppet, med hänsyn till det nyttjande, den rättighet eller den upplysning för vilken royaltyn betalas, överstiger det belopp som skulle ha avtalats mellan utbetalaren och den som har rätt till royaltyn om sådana förbindelser inte förelegat, tillämpas bestämmelserna i denna artikel endast på sistnämnda belopp. I sådant fall beskattas överskjutande belopp enligt lagstiftningen i vardera avtalsslutande staten med iakttagande av övriga bestämmelser i detta avtal.
7. Bestämmelserna i denna artikel skall inte tillämpas om den rättighet eller egendom som givit upphov till royaltyn tillskapats eller placerats huvudsakligen i syfte att uppnå fördelar i denna artikel och inte av verkliga affärsmässiga skäl.
Artikel 13
Kapitalvinst
1. Vinst, som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar på grund av överlåtelse av sådan fast egendom som avses i artikel 6 och som är belägen i den andra avtalsslutande staten, eller på grund av överlåtelse av andelar i ett bolag vars tillgångar huvudsakligen består av sådan egendom, får beskattas i denna andra stat.
2. Vinst på grund av överlåtelse av lös egendom, som utgör del av rörelsetillgångarna i fast driftställe, vilket ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat har i den andra avtalsslutande staten, häri inbegripet vinst på grund av överlåtelse av sådant fast driftställe (för sig eller tillsammans med hela företaget), får beskattas i denna andra stat.
3. Vinst som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar på grund av överlåtelse av skepp eller luftfartyg som används i internationell trafik eller lös egendom som är hänförlig till användningen av sådana skepp eller luftfartyg, beskattas endast i denna stat.
Såvitt avser vinst som förvärvas av luftfartskonsortiet Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) skall bestämmelserna i denna punkt tilllämpas endast i fråga om den del av vinsten som motsvarar den andel av konsortiet som innehas av SAS Sverige AB, den svenske delägaren i SAS.
4. Om inte bestämmelserna i punkt 1 i denna artikel föranleder annat skall vinst som förvärvas av en person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat på grund av överlåtelse av andelar i ett bolag beskattas endast i denna stat utom i fall då överlåtaren är en fysisk person som har haft hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten och fått hemvist i den förstnämnda avtalsslutande staten. I sådant fall får vinsten beskattas i den andra avtalsslutande staten men endast om bolaget, vars andelar överlåts, har hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten och överlåtelsen sker vid något tillfälle under de tio år som följer närmast efter det att den fysiska personen upphört att ha hemvist i denna andra stat.
Artikel 14
Inkomst av anställning
1. Om inte bestämmelserna i artiklarna 15, 17 och 18 föranleder annat, beskattas lön och annan liknande ersättning som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat uppbär på grund av anställning, endast i denna stat, såvida inte arbetet utförs i den andra avtalsslutande staten. Om arbetet utförs i denna andra stat, får ersättning som uppbärs för arbetet beskattas där.
2. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i punkt 1 i denna artikel beskattas ersättning, som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat uppbär för arbete som utförs i den andra avtalsslutande staten, endast i den förstnämnda staten, om
a) mottagaren vistas i den andra staten under tidsperiod eller tidsperioder som sammanlagt inte överstiger 183 dagar under en tolvmånadersperiod som börjar eller slutar under beskattningsåret i fråga, och
b) ersättningen betalas av arbetsgivare som inte har hemvist i den andra staten eller på dennes vägnar, samt
c) ersättningen inte belastar fast driftställe som arbetsgivaren har i den andra staten.
3. Utan hinder av föregående bestämmelser i denna artikel får ersättning för arbete, som utförs ombord på skepp eller luftfartyg som används i internationell trafik av ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat, beskattas i denna stat. Om en person med hemvist i Sverige uppbär ersättning för arbete utfört ombord på luftfartyg som används i internationell trafik av luftfartskonsortiet Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS), skall sådan ersättning beskattas endast i Sverige.
Artikel 15
Styrelsearvode
Styrelsearvode och annan liknande ersättning, som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat uppbär i egenskap av medlem i styrelse eller i annat liknande organ i bolag med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten, får beskattas i denna andra stat.
Artikel 16
Artister och sportutövare
1. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i artikel 14 får inkomst, som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar genom sin personliga verksamhet i den andra avtalsslutande staten i egenskap av artist, såsom teater- eller filmskådespelare, radio- eller televisionsartist eller musiker, eller i egenskap av sportutövare, beskattas i denna andra stat.
2. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i artiklarna 7 och 14 får, i fall då inkomst genom personlig verksamhet som artist eller sportutövare bedriver i denna egenskap inte tillfaller artisten eller sportutövaren personligen utan annan person, denna inkomst beskattas i den avtalsslutande stat där artisten eller sportutövaren bedriver verksamheten.
Artikel 17
Pensioner, livräntor och liknande betalningar
1. Pension och annan liknande ersättning, utbetalning enligt socialförsäkringslagstiftningen och livränta som härrör från en avtalsslutande stat och betalas till en person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten, får beskattas i den förstnämnda avtalsslutande staten.
2. Med uttrycket "livränta" förstås ett fastställt belopp, som utbetalas periodiskt på fastställda tider under en persons livstid eller under angiven eller fastställbar tidsperiod och som utgår på grund av förpliktelse att verkställa dessa utbetalningar som ersättning för däremot fullt svarande vederlag i pengar eller pengars värde.
Artikel 18
Offentlig tjänst
1. a) Lön och annan ersättning, med undantag för pension, som betalas av en avtalsslutande stat, en av dess politiska underavdelningar eller lokala myndigheter till fysisk person på grund av arbete som utförts i denna stats, underavdelnings eller myndighets tjänst, beskattas endast i denna stat.
b) Sådan lön och annan ersättning beskattas emellertid endast i den andra avtalsslutande staten om arbetet utförs i denna andra stat och personen i fråga har hemvist i denna stat och
1) är medborgare i denna stat, eller
2) inte fick hemvist i denna stat uteslutande för att utföra arbetet.
2. Bestämmelserna i artiklarna 14, 15 och 16 tillämpas på ersättning som betalas på grund av arbete som utförts i samband med rörelse som bedrivs av en avtalsslutande stat, en av dess politiska underavdelningar eller lokala myndigheter.
Artikel 19
Studerande och praktikanter
Studerande, lärling eller praktikant som har eller omedelbart före vistelsen i en avtalsslutande stat hade hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten och som vistas i den förstnämnda staten uteslutande för sin undervisning eller praktik, beskattas inte i denna stat för belopp som han erhåller för sitt uppehälle, sin undervisning eller praktik, om beloppen härrör från källa utanför denna stat.
Artikel 20
Lärare och forskare
1. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i artikel 14 skall en professor eller lärare som vistas i en avtalsslutande stat i syfte att bedriva undervisning eller forskning vid ett universitet eller annan liknande erkänd undervisningsanstalt i denna stat och som omedelbart före denna vistelse hade hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten, undantas från beskattning i den förstnämnda staten för ersättning för sådan undervisning och forskning under en tidsperiod som inte överstiger ett år från dagen för den första ankomsten i sådant syfte till den förstnämnda staten, under förutsättning att sådan ersättning uppbärs av honom från källor i den andra avtalsslutande staten.
2. Bestämmelserna i denna artikel tillämpas inte på inkomster från forskning om denna forskning inte bedrivs i allmänt intresse utan helt eller huvudsakligen till förmån för en eller flera specifika personer.
Artikel 21
Annan inkomst
1. Inkomst som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar och som inte behandlas i föregående artiklar av detta avtal beskattas endast i denna stat, oavsett varifrån inkomsten härrör.
2. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 i denna artikel tillämpas inte på inkomst, med undantag för inkomst av fast egendom som avses i artikel 6 punkt 2, om mottagaren av inkomsten har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat och bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten från där beläget fast driftställe samt den rättighet eller egendom i fråga om vilken inkomsten betalas äger verkligt samband med det fasta driftstället. I sådant fall tillämpas bestämmelserna i artikel 7.
3. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i punkterna 1 och 2 i denna artikel får inkomst som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar och som inte behandlas i föregående artiklar av detta avtal och som härrör från den andra avtalsslutande staten, även beskattas i denna andra stat.
Artikel 22
Undanröjande av dubbelbeskattning
1. Beträffande Nigeria:
I enlighet med nigeriansk lagstiftning angående avräkning från nigeriansk skatt av skatt som tas ut inom ett territorium utanför Nigeria (vilket inte skall påverka den allmänna princip som anges här) avräknas svensk skatt som enligt svensk lag och i överensstämmelse med detta avtal tas ut antingen direkt eller genom skatteavdrag, på inkomst eller vinst från källa i Sverige
(dock inte såvitt avser utdelning, för skatt som tas ut på den vinst av vilken utdelningen betalas), från nigeriansk skatt som tas ut på samma inkomst eller vinst.
2. Beträffande Sverige:
a) Om en person med hemvist i Sverige förvärvar inkomst som enligt nigeriansk lagstiftning och i enlighet med bestämmelserna i detta avtal får beskattas i Nigeria, skall Sverige - med beaktande av bestämmelserna i svensk lagstiftning beträffande avräkning av utländsk skatt (även i den lydelse de framdeles kan få genom att ändras utan att den allmänna princip som anges här ändras) - från den svenska skatten på inkomsten avräkna ett belopp motsvarande den nigerianska skatt som erlagts på inkomsten.
b) Om en person med hemvist i Sverige förvärvar inkomst som enligt bestämmelserna i detta avtal beskattas endast i Nigeria, får Sverige vid fastställandet av skattesatsen för svensk progressiv skatt beakta den inkomst som skall beskattas endast i Nigeria.
c) Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i a) i denna punkt är utdelning från bolag med hemvist i Nigeria till bolag med hemvist i Sverige undantagen från svensk skatt enligt bestämmelserna i svensk lag om skattebefrielse för utdelning som betalas till svenska bolag från bolag i utlandet.
d) Vid tillämpningen av a) i denna punkt skall, i fall då ett svenskt bolag har ett fast driftställe i Nigeria, uttrycket
"den nigerianska skatt som erlagts" innefatta den nigerianska skatt som skulle ha erlagts om inte sådan tidsbegränsad befrielse från eller nedsättning av skatt medgivits enligt bestämmelser om skattelättnader i nigeriansk lag som syftar till att främja ekonomisk utveckling till den del sådan befrielse eller nedsättning medgivits för inkomster från export av nigerianska produkter, gruvindustrin eller för installation, drift eller underhåll av stationära eller mobila telekommunikationssystem och därtill hörande utrustning, industri- och tillverkningsverksamhet, olje- och gasindustrin samt jordbruk och turism (inklusive restauranger och hotell), under förutsättning att verksamheterna utövats i Nigeria. Vid tillämpningen av c) i denna punkt skall en skatt om 15 procent anses ha erlagts för sådana verksamheter och under sådana förutsättningar som anges i föregående mening.
e) Vid tillämpningen av a) i denna punkt skall nigeriansk skatt som erlagts med anledning av royalty som tagits emot för nyttjandet av patent, mönster eller modell, ritning, hemligt recept eller hemlig tillverkningsmetod eller för upplysning om erfarenhetsrön av industriell, kommersiell eller vetenskaplig natur, där rättigheten använts för export av nigerianska produkter, gruvindustrin eller för installation, drift eller underhåll av stationära eller mobila telekommunikationssystem och därtill hörande utrustning, industri- och tillverkningsverksamhet, olje- och gasindustrin samt jordbruk och turism (inklusive restauranger och hotell), under förutsättning att verksamheterna utövats i Nigeria, anses utgöra 5 procent utöver den skatt som faktiskt erlagts, eller om ingen skatt erlagts 5 procent, av royaltyns bruttobelopp.
f) Bestämmelserna i d) och e) i denna punkt tillämpas endast under de första tio åren under vilka detta avtal tillämpas.
Denna tidsperiod kan utsträckas genom en ömsesidig överenskommelse mellan de behöriga myndigheterna.
Artikel 23
Förbud mot diskriminering
1. Medborgare i en avtalsslutande stat skall inte i den andra avtalsslutande staten bli föremål för beskattning eller därmed sammanhängande krav som är av annat slag eller mer tyngande än den beskattning och därmed sammanhängande krav som medborgare i denna andra stat under samma förhållanden är eller kan bli underkastad. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i artikel 1 tillämpas denna bestämmelse även på person som inte har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat eller i båda avtalsslutande staterna.
2. Beskattningen av fast driftställe, som företag i en avtalsslutande stat har i den andra avtalsslutande staten, skall i denna andra stat inte vara mindre fördelaktig än beskattningen av företag i denna andra stat, som bedriver verksamhet av samma slag. Denna bestämmelse anses inte medföra skyldighet för en avtalsslutande stat att medge personer med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten sådant personligt avdrag vid beskattningen, sådan skattebefrielse eller skattenedsättning på grund av civilstånd eller försörjningsplikt som medges personer med hemvist i den egna staten.
3. Utom i de fall då bestämmelserna i artikel 9 punkt 1, artikel 11 punkt 7 eller artikel 12 punkt 6 tillämpas, är ränta, royalty och annan betalning från företag i en avtalsslutande stat till person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten, avdragsgilla vid bestämmandet av den beskattningsbara inkomsten för sådant företag på samma villkor som betalning till person med hemvist i den förstnämnda staten.
4. Företag i en avtalsslutande stat, vars kapital helt eller delvis ägs eller kontrolleras, direkt eller indirekt, av en eller flera personer med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten, skall inte i den förstnämnda staten bli föremål för beskattning eller därmed sammanhängande krav som är av annat slag eller mer tyngande än den beskattning och därmed sammanhängande krav som annat liknande företag i den förstnämnda staten är eller kan bli underkastat.
5. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i artikel 2 tillämpas bestämmelserna i denna artikel på skatter av varje slag och beskaffenhet.
Artikel 24
Förfarandet vid ömsesidig överenskommelse
1. Om en person anser att en avtalsslutande stat eller båda avtalsslutande staterna vidtagit åtgärder som för honom medför eller kommer att medföra beskattning som strider mot bestämmelserna i detta avtal, kan han, utan att det påverkar hans rätt att använda sig av de rättsmedel som finns i dessa staters interna rättsordningar, lägga fram saken för den behöriga myndigheten i den avtalsslutande stat där han har hemvist eller, om fråga är om tillämpning av artikel 23 punkt 1, i den avtalsslutande stat där han är medborgare. Saken skall läggas fram inom sex år från den tidpunkt då personen i fråga fick vetskap om den åtgärd som givit upphov till beskattning som strider mot bestämmelserna i avtalet.
2. Om den behöriga myndigheten finner invändningen grundad men inte själv kan få till stånd en tillfredsställande lösning, skall myndigheten söka lösa frågan genom ömsesidig överenskommelse med den behöriga myndigheten i den andra avtalsslutande staten i syfte att undvika beskattning som strider mot avtalet. Överenskommelse som träffats genomförs utan hinder av tidsgränser i de avtalsslutande staternas interna lagstiftning.
3. De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna skall genom ömsesidig överenskommelse söka avgöra svårigheter eller tvivelsmål som uppkommer i fråga om tolkningen eller tillämpningen av avtalet. De kan även överlägga i syfte att undanröja dubbelbeskattning i fall som inte omfattas av detta avtal.
4. De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna kan träda i direkt förbindelse med varandra i syfte att träffa överenskommelse i de fall som angivits i föregående punkter.
Artikel 25
Utbyte av upplysningar
1. De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna skall utbyta sådana upplysningar som är nödvändiga för att tillämpa bestämmelserna i detta avtal eller i de avtalsslutande staternas interna lagstiftning i fråga om skatter av varje slag och beskaffenhet som tas ut för de avtalsslutande staterna eller för deras politiska underavdelningar eller lokala myndigheter, i den mån beskattningen enligt denna lagstiftning inte strider mot avtalet. Utbytet av upplysningar begränsas inte av artiklarna 1 och 2. Upplysningar som en avtalsslutande stat mottagit skall behandlas såsom hemliga på samma sätt som upplysningar, som erhållits enligt den interna lagstiftningen i denna stat och får yppas endast för personer eller myndigheter
(däri inbegripet domstolar och förvaltningsorgan) som fastställer, uppbär eller driver in de skatter som anges i första meningen eller handlägger åtal eller besvär i fråga om dessa skatter. Dessa personer eller myndigheter skall använda upplysningarna endast för sådana ändamål. De får yppa upplysningarna vid offentliga rättegångar eller i domstolsavgöranden. De behöriga myndigheterna kan träda i förbindelse med varandra för att bestämma lämpliga villkor, metoder och förfaringssätt för hur sådant utbyte av information skall genomföras inklusive, där så anses lämpligt, utbyte av information gällande skatteflykt.
2. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 i denna artikel anses inte medföra skyldighet för en avtalsslutande stat att
a) vidta förvaltningsåtgärder som avviker från lagstiftning och administrativ praxis i denna avtalsslutande stat eller i den andra avtalsslutande staten,
b) lämna upplysningar som inte är tillgängliga enligt lagstiftning eller sedvanlig administrativ praxis i denna avtalsslutande stat eller i den andra avtalsslutande staten,
c) lämna upplysningar som skulle röja affärshemlighet, industri-, handels- eller yrkeshemlighet eller i näringsverksamhet nyttjat förfaringssätt eller upplysningar, vilkas överlämnande skulle strida mot allmänna hänsyn (ordre public).
Artikel 26
Begränsningar av förmåner
Utan hinder av övriga bestämmelser i detta avtal, om:
a) bolag med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar sina inkomster huvudsakligen från andra stater
1) från aktiviteter sådana som bank-, sjöfarts-, finans- eller försäkringsverksamhet, eller
2) genom att vara huvudkontor, coordination centre eller liknande enhet som tillhandahåller administrativa eller andra tjänster till en grupp av företag som bedriver rörelse huvudsakligen i andra stater, och
b) sådan inkomst beskattas väsentligt lägre enligt lagstiftningen i denna stat än inkomster från liknande verksamheter som bedrivs inom denna stat eller genom att vara huvudkontor, coordination centre eller liknande enhet som tillhandahåller administrativa eller andra tjänster till en grupp av företag som bedriver sin verksamhet i denna stat,
skall de bestämmelser i detta avtal som medger undantag från beskattning eller reduktion av skatt inte tillämpas på inkomst som sådant bolag förvärvar och inte heller på utdelning som betalas av sådant bolag.
Artikel 27
Medlemmar av diplomatisk beskickning och konsulat
Bestämmelserna i detta avtal berör inte de privilegier vid beskattningen som enligt folkrättens allmänna regler eller bestämmelser i särskilda överenskommelser tillkommer medlemmar av diplomatisk beskickning eller konsulat.
Artikel 28
Ikraftträdande
1. De avtalsslutande staterna skall på diplomatisk väg underrätta varandra om när de åtgärder vidtagits enligt respektive stats lagstiftning som krävs för att detta avtal skall träda i kraft.
2. Avtalet träder i kraft den trettionde dagen efter det att den sista av dessa underrättelser tagits emot och skall därefter tillämpas:
a) i Nigeria:
1) i fråga om källskatter på inkomst och skatter på kapitalvinst som förvärvas av en person som inte har hemvist i Nigeria, såvitt avser inkomst och kapitalvinst som förvärvas den 1 januari det kalenderår som följer närmast efter det år då avtalet träder i kraft eller senare,
2) i fråga om andra skatter, såvitt avser inkomster hänförliga till beskattningsperiod som börjar den 1 januari det kalenderår som följer närmast efter det år då avtalet träder i kraft eller senare,
b) i Sverige:
1) i fråga om källskatter, på belopp som betalas eller tillgodoförs den 1 januari det år som följer närmast efter det år då avtalet träder i kraft eller senare,
2) i fråga om andra skatter på inkomst och kapitalvinst, på skatt som påförs för beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari det år som närmast följer efter det år då avtalet träder i kraft eller senare.
Artikel 29
Upphörande
Detta avtal skall förbli i kraft intill dess det sägs upp av en avtalsslutande stat. En avtalsslutande stat kan på diplomatisk väg säga upp avtalet genom att minst sex månader före utgången av något kalenderår härom skriftligen underrätta den andra staten. I sådant fall skall avtalet upphöra att gälla:
a) i Nigeria:
1) i fråga om källskatter på inkomst och skatter på kapitalvinst som förvärvas av person som inte har hemvist i Nigeria, såvitt avser inkomst och kapitalvinst som förvärvas den 1 januari det kalenderår som följer närmast efter utgången av sexmånadersperioden eller senare,
2) i fråga om andra skatter, såvitt avser inkomster hänförliga till beskattningsperiod som börjar den 1 januari det kalenderår som följer närmast efter utgången av sexmånadersperioden eller senare,
b) i Sverige:
1) i fråga om källskatter, på belopp som betalas eller tillgodoförs den 1 januari det år som följer närmast efter utgången av sexmånadersperioden eller senare,
2) i fråga om andra skatter på inkomst och kapitalvinst, på skatt som påförs för beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari det år som närmast följer efter utgången av sexmånadersperioden eller senare.
Till bekräftelse härav har undertecknade, därtill vederbörligen bemyndigade, undertecknat detta avtal.
Som skedde i Stockholm den 18 november 2004 i två exemplar på engelska språket.
För Konungariket Sveriges regering
Thomas Östros
För Federala Republiken Nigerias regering
Alhaji Abubakar A. Tanko
Protokoll till avtalet mellan Konungariket Sverige och Federala Republiken Nigeria för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning och förhindrande av skatteflykt beträffande skatter på inkomst och på kapitalvinst
Vid undertecknandet av avtalet för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning och förhindrande av skatteflykt beträffande skatter på inkomst och på kapitalvinst mellan Konungariket Sverige och Federala Republiken Nigeria, har de avtalsslutande staterna kommit överens om att följande bestämmelser skall utgöra en integrerande del av avtalet:
Artikel 5
1. Om en överenskommelse eller ett avtal mellan Nigeria och en medlemsstat i Organisationen för ekonomiskt samarbete och utveckling (OECD) föreskriver en längre tidsperiod än någon av dem som föreskrivs i artikel 5 punkt 2 g) eller h) (antingen generellt eller i förhållande till särskilda aktiviteter), skall sådan längre tidsperiod eller sådana längre tidsperioder automatiskt tillämpas (antingen generellt eller i förhållande till särskilda aktiviteter) om en person med hemvist i Nigeria bedriver sådan verksamhet i Sverige eller om en person med hemvist i Sverige bedriver sådan verksamhet i Nigeria, på samma sätt som om sådan längre tidsperiod eller sådana längre tidsperioder hade föreskrivits i dessa punkter.
2. Om en överenskommelse eller ett avtal mellan Nigeria och en medlemsstat i Organisationen för ekonomiskt samarbete och utveckling (OECD), som undertecknas efter undertecknandet av detta avtal, ordet "utlämnande" inkluderas i en bestämmelse eller i bestämmelser som motsvarar artikel 5 punkt 3 a) eller b), eller i båda dessa punkter, skall artikel 5 punkt 3 a) och b) automatiskt tillämpas som om ordet "utlämnande" hade inkluderats på detta sätt från och med den tidpunkt då avtalet mellan Nigeria och denna tredje stat börjar att tillämpas.
Artikel 7
Bestämmelserna i artikel 7 punkt 1 b) och c) tillämpas endast i fall då företagets försäljning och affärsverksamhet i den andra avtalsslutande staten påverkas negativt på grund av att andra försäljningsställen än det fasta driftstället gynnas genom att tillföras inkomster som annars skulle ha varit hänförliga till det fasta driftstället, och
1) inkomsterna i det fasta driftstället inte bestäms på grundval av det totala beloppet som företaget erhåller utan på grundval av den ersättning som driftstället kan antas ha erhållit om det varit ett fristående företag, som bedrivit verksamhet av samma eller liknande slag under samma eller liknande villkor,
2) inkomsterna i ett sådant fast driftställe inte bestäms på grundval av den totala kontraktssumman utan på grundval av den del av kontraktet som fullgörs vid det fasta driftstället.
Artikel 8
1. Om de behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna genom ömsesidig överenskommelse enas om att inkomst som förvärvas av en eller flera personer med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat från användningen av skepp eller luftfartyg i internationell trafik till eller från platser i den andra avtalsslutande staten och att motsvarande inkomster inte förvärvas av en eller flera personer med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten från användningen av skepp eller luftfartyg i internationell trafik till eller från platser i den förstnämnda staten, samt att detta förhållande är av permanent natur, anses kravet på ömsesidighet som föreskrivs i artikel 8 punkt 1 för skattebefrielse inte uppfyllt. Vid sådant förhållande skall den skatt som tas ut inte överstiga en procent av de inkomster som företaget förvärvar från den andra avtalsslutande staten. Vid tilllämpningen av föregående mening skall med uttrycket "inkomst", förstås inkomst som förvärvas av en person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat från transport av passagerare, post, boskap eller gods som stiger ombord eller lastas i den andra avtalsslutande staten med avdrag för återbetalningar, löner avseende markpersonal och med bortseende från inkomster som förvärvats för transport av passagerare, post, boskap eller gods som ankommit till denna andra stat uteslutande för omlastning eller transfer.
2. Om en överenskommelse eller ett avtal för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning, eller därtill hörande protokoll, eller någon annan internationell överenskommelse som undertecknas efter dagen för undertecknandet av detta avtal, mellan Nigeria och en tredje stat, föreskriver skattesatser (inklusive nollskattesats) på inkomster från användningen av skepp eller luftfartyg i internationell trafik som är lägre än den som anges i detta protokoll, skall denna lägre skattesats tillämpas även med avseende på detta avtal från den senare tidpunkt då antingen detta avtal eller ifrågavarande överenskommelse, avtal, protokoll eller annan internationell överenskommelse mellan Nigeria och denna tredje stat börjar att tillämpas.
Artiklarna 10, 11 och 12
I fråga om artikel 10 punkt 6, artikel 11 punkt 8 och artikel 12 punkt 7 gäller att när en avtalsslutande stat överväger att neka en person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten förmåner skall de behöriga myndigheterna överlägga med varandra.
Om en överenskommelse eller ett avtal mellan Nigeria och en medlemsstat i Organisationen för ekonomiskt samarbete och utveckling (OECD) föreskriver att Nigeria skall skattebefria utdelning, ränta eller royalty (antingen generellt eller i förhållande till särskilda kategorier av utdelning, ränta eller royalty) härrörande från Nigeria, eller begränsa den skatt som tas ut i Nigeria avseende sådan utdelning, ränta eller royalty
(antingen generellt eller i förhållande till särskilda kategorier av utdelning, ränta eller royalty) till en skattesats som understiger den som föreskrivs i artikel 10 punkt 2 a), artikel 11 punkt 2 eller artikel 12 punkt 2 i detta avtal, skall sådan skattebefrielse eller lägre skattesats automatiskt tillämpas avseende utdelning, ränta eller royalty
(antingen generellt eller i förhållande till dessa särskilda kategorier av utdelning, ränta eller royalty) härrörande från Nigeria och som betalas till en person med hemvist i Sverige som har rätt till denna och utdelningar, ränta och royalty
(antingen generellt eller i förhållande till dessa särskilda kategorier av utdelningar, ränta eller royalty) härrörande från Sverige och som betalas till en person med hemvist i Nigeria som har rätt till denna, på samma villkor som om sådan skattebefrielse eller sådan lägre skattesats hade föreskrivits i nämnda punkter.
Till bekräftelse härav har undertecknade, därtill vederbörligen bemyndigade, undertecknat detta protokoll.
Som skedde i Stockholm den 18 november 2004 i två exemplar på engelska språket.
För Konungariket Sveriges regering
Thomas Östros
För Federala Republiken Nigerias regering
Alhaji Abubakar A. Tanko
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.