Title: Förordning (1998:277) om tillämpning av en
överenskommelse mellan Sverige och Slovakien
om ömsesidigt bistånd i tullfrågor
SFS Number: Svensk författningssamling 1998:277
URL: https://www.riksdagen.se/sv/dokument-och-lagar/dokument/svensk-forfattningssamling/forordning-1998277-om-tillampning-av-en_sfs-1998-277/
Source Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfst?bet=1998:277
Amendment Register Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfsr?bet=1998:277
Ministry/Authority: Utrikesdepartementet
Issued: 1998-05-14
Metadata: {"Utfärdad": "1998-05-14", "Ändrad": "t.o.m. SFS 1999:551"}

==================================================

Förordning (1998:277) om tillämpning av en
överenskommelse mellan Sverige och Slovakien
om ömsesidigt bistånd i tullfrågor
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.
SFS nr
:     
1998:277
Departement/myndighet
:   
Utrikesdepartementet
Utfärdad
:   
1998-05-14
Ändrad
:   
t.o.m. SFS 1999:551
Ändringsregister
:
SFSR (Regeringskansliet)
Källa
:
Fulltext (Regeringskansliet)
1 §
Den överenskommelse mellan Sverige och Slovakien om ömsesidigt bistånd i tullfrågor som har undertecknats den 28 oktober 1997 skall gälla som förordning här i landet.
Överenskommelsen i engelsk och svensk originaltext2 finns i bilagan till denna förordning.
2 §
Tullverket får meddela sådana föreskrifter som behövs för verkställigheten av denna förordning och som avses i artikel 18.1 andra meningen i överenskommelsen.
Förordning (1999:551).
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC REGARDING MUTUAL ASSISTANCE IN CUSTOMS MATTERS
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC, hereinafter referred to as the Contracting Parties,
CONSIDERING that offences against customs legislation are prejudicial to the economic, fiscal, social and commercial interests of their respective countries as well as to the legitimate interests of trade;
CONSIDERING the importance of assuring the accurate assessment and collection of customs duties, taxes, fees or other charges on importation or exportation of goods, as well as the proper implementation of provisions of prohibition, restriction and control;
CONVINCED that efforts to prevent offences against customs legislation and efforts to ensure accurate collection of import and export duties, taxes, fees or other charges can be rendered more effective through co-operation between their Customs Authorities;
HAVING REGARD TO the Recommendation of the Customs Co-operation Council on mutual administrative assistance of December 5, 1953;
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
DEFINITIONS
ARTICLE 1
For the purposes of the present Agreement,
1. "Customs legislation" shall mean provisions laid down by law or regulation concerning the importation, exportation, transit of goods or any other customs procedure, whether relating to customs duties, taxes, fees or other charges levied by Customs Authorities, or to measures of prohibition, restriction or control.
2. "Offence" shall mean any violation of customs legislation as well as any attempted violation of such legislation.
3. "Customs Authority" shall mean in the Kingdom of Sweden, the Board of Customs (Generaltullstyrelsen) and in the Slovak Republic, the Ministry of Finance - the Customs Directorate of the Slovak Republic (Colné riaditel'stvo Slovenskej republiky).
4. "Applicant Customs Authority" shall mean the competent Customs Authority of a Contracting Party which makes a request for assistance in customs matters.
5. "Requested Customs Authority" shall mean the competent Customs Authority of a Contracting Party which receives a request for assistance in customs matters.
6. "Controlled delivery" shall mean the technique of allowing illicit or suspect consignments of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances or substances substituted for them, to pass out of, through or into the territories of the Contracting Parties, with the knowledge and under the supervision of their competent authorities, with a view to identifying persons involved in the illicit trafficking of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances.
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
ARTICLE 2
1. The Contracting Parties shall, through their Customs Authorities and in accordance with the provisions set out in this Agreement, afford each other mutual assistance:
(a) in order to ensure that customs legislation is properly followed;
(b) in order to prevent, investigate and combat offences against customs legislation;
(c) in cases concerning delivery/notification of documents regarding application of customs legislation;
(d) in cases concerning recovery of claims related to customs legislation.
2. Assistance within the framework of this Agreement shall be rendered in accordance with the legislation in force in the territory of the requested Contracting Party and within the competence and resources of the requested Customs Authority. If necessary, a Customs Authority can arrange for assistance to be provided by another, competent authority, in accordance with the legislation in force in the territory of the requested Contracting Party. This Agreement shall not prejudice the provisions of any Agreement on legal assistance in criminal matters to which the Contracting Parties have adhered.
COMMUNICATION OF INFORMATION
ARTICLE 3
1. The Customs Authorities shall, upon request, supply to each other all information which may help to ensure accuracy in:
(a) the collection of customs duties, taxes, fees or other charges levied by Customs Authorities and, in particular, information which may help to assess the value of goods for customs purposes and to establish their tariff classification;
(b) the implementation of import and export prohibitions and restrictions;
(c) the application of national rules of origin not covered by other arrangements concluded by one of or both Contracting Parties.
2. If the requested Customs Authority does not have the information asked for, it shall seek that information in accordance with the legislation in force in the territory of the requested Contracting Party.
3. The requested Customs Authority shall seek the information as if it was acting on its own account.
ARTICLE 4
The Customs Authorities shall, upon request, supply to each other any information showing that:
(a) goods imported into the territory of one Contracting Party have been lawfully exported from the territory of the other Contracting Party;
(b) goods exported from the territory of one Contracting Party have been lawfully imported into the territory of the other Contracting Party;
(c) goods which are granted favourable treatment upon exportation from the territory of one Contracting Party have been duly imported into the territory of the other Contracting Party, it being understood that information shall also be provided on any customs control measures to which the goods have been subjected.
ARTICLE 5
The Customs Authority of one Contracting Party shall, on its own initiative or upon request, supply to the Customs Authority of the other Contracting Party all information likely to be of use to it relating to offences against customs legislation and, in particular, regarding:
(a) persons known or suspected of committing or having committed offences against the customs legislation in force in the territory of the other Contracting Party;
(b) goods known to be subject of illicit traffic;
(c) means of transport and containers, known or suspected of being used in committing offences against the customs legislation in force in the territory of the other Contracting Party;
(d) new ways and means employed in committing offences against customs legislation.
ARTICLE 6
The Customs Authority of one Contracting Party shall, on its own initiative or upon request, supply to the Customs Authority of the other Contracting Party reports, records of evidence or certified copies of documents giving all available information on activities, detected or planned, which constitute or appear to constitute an offence against the customs legislation in force in the territory of that Contracting Party.
Original files and documents shall be requested only in cases where certified copies would be insufficient. Originals which have been transmitted shall be returned at the earliest opportunity unless return is waived by the requested Customs Authority.
ARTICLE 7
The documents referred to in this Agreement may be replaced by computerised information produced in any form for the same purpose. All relevant information for the interpretation or utilization of the material should be supplied at the same time.
SURVEILLANCE OF PERSONS, GOODS AND MEANS OF TRANSPORT
ARTICLE 8
The Customs Authority of one Contracting Party shall, within its competence and resources, on its own initiative or upon request by the Customs Authority of the other Contracting Party, maintain surveillance over:
(a) the movements, particularly entry into and exit from its territory, of persons known or suspected of committing or having committed offences against legislation in force in the territory of the other Contracting Party;
(b) any means of transport and containers, known or suspected of being used in committing offences against the customs legislation in force in the territory of the other Contracting Party;
(c) movements of goods reported by the Customs Authority of the other Contracting Party, which could result in substantial illicit traffic to or from its territory or suspicions thereof.
CONTROLLED DELIVERY
ARTICLE 9
1. If permitted by the basic principles of their respective domestic legal systems, the Contracting Parties shall take the necessary measures, within their possibilities, to allow for the appropriate use of controlled delivery at the international level, on the basis of agreements or arrangements mutually consented to, with a view to identifying persons involved in the illicit trafficking of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and to taking legal action against them.
2. Decisions to use controlled delivery shall be made on a case-by-case basis. They may, if necessary, and provided it is in conformity with the national legislation of the Contracting Parties, take into account financial arrangements and understandings reached.
3. Illicit consignments whose controlled delivery is agreed to, may, by mutual consent of the competent authorities, be intercepted and allowed to continue with the narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances intact or removed or replaced in whole or in part.
INVESTIGATIONS
ARTICLE 10
1. Upon application, the requested Customs Authority shall initiate official inquiries concerning operations which are or appear to be contrary to the customs legislation in force in the territory of the applicant Contracting Party. It shall communicate the results of such inquiries to the applicant Customs Authority.
2. These inquiries shall be conducted under the legislation in force in the territory of the requested Contracting Party. The requested Customs Authority shall proceed as though it was acting on its own account.
3. The requested Customs Authority may allow officials of the applicant Contracting Party to be present at such investigations.
EXPERTS AND WITNESSES
ARTICLE 11
If the courts or the authorities of one Contracting Party so request in connection with offences against customs legislation brought before them, the Customs Authority of the other Contracting Party may authorize its officials to appear as experts or witnesses before those courts or authorities. Such officials shall give evidence regarding facts established by them in the course of their duties. The request for appearance must clearly indicate in what case and in what capacity the official is to appear.
USE OF INFORMATION AND DOCUMENTS
ARTICLE 12
1. Information, documents and other communications received under this Agreement shall not be used for purposes other than those specified in this Agreement, without the written consent of the Customs Authority which furnished them. These provisions are not applicable to information, documents and other communications concerning offences relevant to narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances.
2. Any information communicated in whatever form pursuant to this Agreement shall be of a confidential nature. It shall be covered by the obligation of official secrecy and shall enjoy the protection extended to the same kind of information and documents under the legislation in force in the territory of the Contracting Party which received it.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not impede the use of information in case of failure to comply with customs legislation, also in possible administrative or judicial proceedings.
4. The Customs Authorities of the Contracting Parties may, however, in accordance with the purposes and within the scope of this Agreement, in their records of evidence, reports, and testimonies, and in proceedings and charges brought before courts, use as evidence information and documents obtained in accordance with this Agreement.
5. The use made of such information and documents as evidence in courts and the weight to be attached thereto shall be determined in accordance with national legislation.
DELIVERY/NOTIFICATION
ARTICLE 13
Upon application, the requested Customs Authority shall, in accordance with the legislation in force in the territory of the requested Contracting Party, deliver/notify to the natural or legal persons concerned, residing or established in its territory, all documents and decisions falling within the scope of this Agreement, which emanate from the applicant Customs Authority.
ASSISTANCE IN RECOVERY
ARTICLE 14
1. Upon application, the requested Customs Authority shall take necessary steps to recover customs duty claims. Such claims also include taxes, fees or other charges, as well as interests thereupon, levied and collected in accordance with customs legislation by Customs Authorities.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply only to claims which exceed a minimum amount, to be established in accordance with Article 18:1, and from the subject of an instrument permitting their enforcement in the territory of the applicant Contracting Party.
3. A request for recovery of a claim must be accompanied by an official or certified copy of the instrument permitting its enforcement and a translation in accordance with the provisions of Article 15:3.
4. The instrument permitting enforcement of the claim shall, where appropriate and in accordance with the legislation in force in the territory of the requested Contracting Party, be accepted, recognized, supplemented or replaced by an instrument authorizing enforcement in the territory of that Contracting Party.
5. Questions concerning any period beyond which a claim cannot be enforced shall be governed by the legislation in force in the territory of the requested Contracting Party.
6. Claims to be recovered shall not be given preferential treatment in the territory of the requested Contracting Party.
7. A bankruptcy petition against the debtor, on the basis of a claim, can be filed only if the applicant and the requested Customs Authorities so agree. Costs resulting from bankruptcy proceedings shall be paid by the applicant Customs Authority.
8. The requested Customs Authority may allow deferral of payment or payment by instalments, but shall first inform the applicant Customs Authority.
9. Proceedings relating to the existence or the amount of the claim or the instrument permitting its enforcement may be brought only before the appropriate body of the applicant Contracting Party.
10. Claims shall be recovered in the currency of the requested Contracting Party in accordance with the official exchange rate on the day when the request was received.
11. Amounts which have been recovered shall be transmitted to the applicant Customs Authority, after deduction of fees and costs which are levied in accordance with the legislation in force in the territory of the requested Contracting Party.
FORM AND SUBSTANCE OF REQUESTS FOR ASSISTANCE
ARTICLE 15
1. Requests pursuant to the present Agreement shall be made in writing. Documents necessary for the execution of such requests shall accompany the request. When required because of the urgency of the situation, oral requests may be accepted, but must be confirmed in writing immediately.
2. Requests pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article shall include the following information:
(a) the Customs Authority making the request;
(b) the measure requested;
(c) the object of and the reason for the request;
(d) the laws, rules, regulations and other legal elements involved;
(e) indications as exact and comprehensive as possible on the natural or legal persons being the target of the investigations;
(f) a summary of the relevant facts, except in cases provided for in Article 13.
3. Requests shall be submitted in an official language of the requested Contracting Party, in English or in another language acceptable to the requested Customs Authority.
4. If a request does not meet the formal requirements, its correction or completion may be demanded; the ordering of precautionary measures shall not be affected thereby.
EXCEPTIONS FROM THE LIABILITY TO RENDER ASSISTANCE
ARTICLE 16
1. If the requested Customs Authority considers that the assistance sought would infringe upon the sovereignty, public order, security or other essential interests of the requested Contracting Party or would involve violation of an industrial, commercial or professional secret in the territory of that Contracting Party, it may refuse to provide such assistance, provide it partly or provide it subject to certain conditions or requirements.
2. If a request for assistance cannot be complied with, the applicant Customs Authority shall be notified without delay and shall be informed of the reasons for the refusal to provide assistance.
3. If a Customs Authority asks for assistance which it would itself be unable to give if asked to do so by the Customs Authority of the other Contracting Party, it shall draw attention to that fact in its request. Compliance with such a request shall be within the discretion of the requested Customs Authority.
COSTS
ARTICLE 17
Each Customs Authority shall waive all claims for reimbursement of costs incurred in the execution of this Agreement, with the exception of expenses for experts, witnesses, interpreters and translators as well as the exceptions stated in Article 14.
IMPLEMENTATION
ARTICLE 18
1. Implementation of this Agreement shall be entrusted to the Customs Authorities of the Contracting Parties. Those Authorities shall mutually agree on detailed arrangements for that purpose.
2. The Customs Authorities of the Contracting Parties may arrange for their investigation services to be in direct communication with each other.
TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY
ARTICLE 19
This Agreement shall apply to the territories of both Contracting Parties.
ENTRY INTO FORCE AND TERMINATION
ARTICLE 20
1. Each Government shall notify one another through diplomatic channels when all necessary national legal requirements for entry into force have been fulfilled. The Agreement shall enter into force sixty days after the last notification has been received.
2. This Agreement may be terminated by written notice through diplomatic channels and shall cease to be in force six months after such notice has been received by the other Contracting Party.
In witness hereof the undersigned, duly authorized thereto, have signed this Agreement.
Done at Stockholm on, 28 October 1997, in duplicate, in the Swedish Slovak and English languages, all texts being equally authentic. In case of any divergence of interpretation of the provisions of this Agreement the English text shall prevail.
ÖVERENSKOMMELSE MELLAN KONUNGARIKET SVERIGES REGERING OCH REPUBLIKEN SLOVAKIENS REGERING OM ÖMSESIDIGT BISTÅND I TULLFRÅGOR
KONUNGARIKET SVERIGES REGERING OCH REPUBLIKEN SLOVAKIENS REGERING, nedan kallade de avtalsslutande parterna,
BEAKTAR att brott mot tullagstiftningen skadar deras respektive länders ekonomiska, fiskala, sociala och kommersiella intressen liksom handelns legitima intressen,
BEAKTAR vikten av att säkerställa att tullar, skatter eller andra avgifter vid import eller export av varor fastställs och uppbärs riktigt, liksom att föreskrifter om förbud, restriktioner och kontroll tillämpas korrekt,
ÄR ÖVERTYGADE OM att bemödandena att förhindra brott mot tullagstiftningen och att säkerställa en riktig uppbörd av import- och exporttullar och skatter eller andra avgifter kan göras mer effektiva genom samarbete mellan deras tullmyndigheter, och
UPPMÄRKSAMMAR tullsamarbetsrådets rekommendation om ömsesidigt administrativt bistånd av den 5 december 1953.
PARTERNA HAR KOMMIT
ÖVERENS OM FÖLJANDE:
DEFINITIONER
ARTIKEL 1
I denna överenskommelse avses med
1. tullagstiftning: föreskrifter i lagar och andra författningar om import, export och transitering av varor, liksom varje annan tullprocedur, vare sig det gäller tullar, skatter eller andra avgifter som påförs av tullmyndigheter, eller avser förbud, restriktioner eller kontroll,
2. brott: varje överträdelse av tullagstiftningen liksom varje försök till sådan överträdelse,
3. tullmyndighet: i Konungariket Sverige Generaltullstyrelsen och i Republiken Slovakien Colné riaditel'stvo Slovenskej republiky,
4. begärande tullmyndighet: behörig tullmyndighet i en avtalsslutande part som gör en framställan om bistånd i tullfrågor,
5. anmodad tullmyndighet: behörig tullmyndighet i en avtalsslutande part som mottar en framställan om bistånd i tullfrågor,
6. kontrollerad leverans: metoden att tillåta att en olaglig eller misstänkt försändelse av narkotika, psykotropa ämnen eller ämnen med vilka sådana ersatts, förs ut ur, igenom eller in i de avtalsslutande parternas territorier med de behöriga myndigheternas vetskap och under deras övervakning, i avsikt att identifiera personer som är inblandade i olaglig handel med
narkotika och psykotropa ämnen.
TILLÄMPNINGSOMRÅDE
ARTIKEL 2
1. De avtalsslutande parterna skall genom sina tullmyndigheter och i enlighet med bestämmelserna i denna överenskommelse lämna varandra ömsesidigt bistånd
a) i syfte att säkerställa att tullagstiftningen vederbörligen efterlevs,
b) i syfte att förhindra, utreda och beivra brott mot tullagstiftningen,
c) i ärenden som rör delgivning/underrättelse i samband med tillämpning av tullagstiftningen,
d) i ärenden som rör indrivning av fordringar som hänför sig till tulllagstiftningen.
2. Bistånd enligt denna överenskommelse skall lämnas i enlighet med gällande lagstiftning inom den anmodade avtalsslutande partens territorium och inom ramen för den anmodade tullmyndighetens befogenheter och resurser. Om så är nödvändigt, kan en tullmyndighet ombesörja att bistånd lämnas av en annan behörig myndighet i enlighet med gällande lagstiftning inom den anmodade avtalsslutande partens territorium. Detta avtal skall inte påverka tillämpningen av gällande föreskrifter avseende ömsesidigt bistånd i brottmål till vilka de avtalsslutande parterna anslutit sig.
UTBYTE AV UPPLYSNINGAR
ARTIKEL 3
1. Tullmyndigheterna skall på begäran lämna varandra alla upplysningar som kan bidra till att säkerställa noggrannhet vid
a) uppbörd av tullar, skatter och andra avgifter som påförs av tullmyndigheterna och särskilt upplysningar som kan vara
till hjälp vid tullvärdebestämning och klassificering enligt tulltaxan,
b) tillämpning av bestämmelser om import- och exportförbud och restriktioner,
c) tillämpning av nationella ursprungsregler när bistånd inte kan lämnas enligt andra överenskommelser.
2. Om den anmodade tullmyndigheten inte har de efterfrågade upplysningarna skall den söka skaffa dessa i enlighet med gällande lagstiftning inom den anmodade avtalsslutande partens territorium.
3. Den anmodade tullmyndigheten skall söka skaffa upplysningarna som om den handlade för egen räkning.
ARTIKEL 4
Tullmyndigheterna skall på begäran lämna varandra alla upplysningar som visar att
a) varor som importeras till den ena avtalsslutande partens territorium har exporterats lagligt från den andra avtalsslutande partens territorium,
b) varor som exporteras från den ena avtalsslutande partens territorium har importerats lagligt till den andra avtalsslutande partens territorium,
c) varor som medges förmånsbehandling vid export från den ena avtalsslutande partens territorium har importerats i vederbörlig ordning till den andra avtalsslutande partens territorium, varvid förutsätts att myndigheterna även skall upplysa om ifall och på vilket sätt varorna tullkontrollerats.
ARTIKEL 5
Den ena avtalsslutande partens tullmyndighet skall, självmant eller på begäran, lämna den andra avtalsslutande partens tullmyndighet alla upplysningar om brott mot tullagstiftningen som denna kan ha nytta av och särskilt upplysningar om
a) personer som är kända eller misstänkta för att begå eller ha begått brott mot gällande tullagstiftning inom den andra avtalsslutande partens territorium,
b) varor som är kända för att vara föremål för olovlig trafik,
c) transportmedel och containrar som är kända eller misstänkta för att användas vid brott mot gällande tullagstiftning inom den andra avtalsslutande partens territorium,
d) nya hjälpmedel och metoder som används vid brott mot tullagstiftningen.
ARTIKEL 6
Den ena avtalsslutande partens tullmyndighet skall självmant eller på begäran lämna den andra avtalsslutande partens tullmyndighet rapporter, urkunder innehållande bevis eller bestyrkta kopior av handlingar med alla tillgängliga upplysningar om upptäckta eller planerade aktiviteter, som utgör eller förefaller utgöra ett brott mot gällande tullagstiftning inom den senare avtalsslutande partens territorium.
Akter och handlingar i original skall efterfrågas enbart då bestyrkta kopior ej är tillräckligt. Original som har överlämnats skall återlämnas så snart som möjligt, om inte den anmodade tullmyndigheten avstått från att få dem åter.
ARTIKEL 7
De handlingar som avses i denna överenskommelse kan ersättas av datoriserad information framställd i valfri form för samma ändamål. Anvisningar för tolkning och användning av materialet bör samtidigt tillhandahållas.
ÖVERVAKNING AV PERSONER, VAROR OCH TRANSPORTMEDEL
ARTIKEL 8
Den ena avtalsslutande partens tullmyndighet skall, inom ramen för sina befogenheter och resurser, självmant eller på begäran av den andra avtalsslutande partens tullmyndighet, övervaka
a) resor, särskilt inresor till och utresor från sitt territorium som företas av personer som är kända eller misstänkta för att begå eller ha begått brott mot gällande lagstiftning inom den andra avtalsslutande partens territorium,
b) transportmedel och containrar som är kända eller misstänkta för att användas vid brott mot gällande tullagstiftning inom den andra avtalsslutande partens territorium,
c) varurörelser som av den andra avtalsslutande partens tullmyndighet rapporteras ge upphov till betydande olovlig trafik till eller från dess territorium eller misstankar om sådan trafik.
KONTROLLERADE LEVERANSER
ARTIKEL 9
1. Om det är förenligt med de grundläggande principerna i de avtalsslutande parternas respektive rättssystem skall de så långt som möjligt vidta erforderliga åtgärder för att på grundval av ömsesidiga avtal eller överenskommelser tillåta ändamålsenlig användning av kontrollerade leveranser på internationell nivå för att kunna identifiera personer som är inblandade i olaglig handel med narkotika och psykotropa ämnen och för att kunna vidta rättsliga åtgärder mot dem.
2. Beslut om kontrollerade leveranser skall grundas på överenskommelser i varje särskilt fall. Besluten kan, om det är nödvändigt och förutsatt att det är i överensstämmelse med den nationella lagstiftningen hos de avtalsslutande parterna, ta hänsyn till träffade ekonomiska överenskommelser.
3. Olagliga sändningar som omfattas av en överenskommelse om kontrollerad leverans får, med ömsesidigt samtycke från berörda myndigheter, fångas upp och tillåtas fortsätta med de narkotiska eller psykotropa ämnena orörda eller avlägsnade eller helt eller delvis ersatta.
UNDERSÖKNINGAR
ARTIKEL 10
1. Den anmodade tullmyndigheten skall på begäran inleda officiella undersökningar av förfaranden som strider eller förefaller strida mot gällande tullagstiftning inom den begärande avtalsslutande partens territorium. Resultaten av sådana undersökningar skall meddelas den begärande tullmyndigheten.
2. Dessa undersökningar skall företas i enlighet med gällande lagstiftning inom den anmodade avtalsslutande partens territorium. Den anmodade tullmyndigheten skall göra som om den handlade för egen räkning.
3. Den anmodade tullmyndigheten kan tillåta den begärande avtalsslutande partens tjänstemän att närvara vid sådana undersökningar.
SAKKUNNIGA OCH VITTNEN
ARTIKEL 11
På anmodan av den ena avtalsslutande partens domstolar eller myndigheter vid vilka mål om brott mot tullagstiftningen väckts kan den andra avtalsslutande partens tullmyndighet bemyndiga sina tjänstemän att inställa sig som sakkunniga eller vittnen vid dessa domstolar eller myndigheter för att höras om sådana fakta som de inhämtat i tjänsten. Av kallelsen skall klart framgå i vilket ärende och i vilken egenskap tjänstemannen skall framträda.
ANVÄNDNING AV UPPLYSNINGAR OCH HANDLINGAR
ARTIKEL 12
1. Upplysningar, handlingar och andra meddelanden som erhållits enligt denna överenskommelse får bara användas för andra syften än de som anges i denna överenskommelse om den tullmyndighet som lämnat dem ger skriftligt tillstånd. Dessa bestämmelser är inte tillämpliga på upplysningar, handlingar och andra meddelanden angående brott som rör narkotika och psykotropa ämnen.
2. Upplysningar som lämnats enligt denna överenskommelse skall oavsett i vilken form de lämnats vara konfidentiella. De skall omfattas av sekretesskydd och åtnjuta det skydd som ges samma slag av upplysningar och handlingar enligt gällande lagstiftning inom den mottagande avtalsslutande partens territorium.
3. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 skall inte hindra användningen av upplysningar vid överträdelse av tullagstiftningen, inbegripet eventuella administrativa och rättsliga förfaranden.
4. De avtalsslutande parternas tullmyndigheter får emellertid, i enlighet med syftena och inom ramen för denna överenskommelse, i sina urkunder innehållande bevis, rapporter och vittnesmål samt vid förhandlingar och åtal inför domstol som bevisning använda upplysningar och handlingar som erhållits enligt överenskommelsen.
5. Rätten att åberopa sådana upplysningar och handlingar som bevis inför domstol och den vikt som skall fästas därvid avgörs av den inhemska lagstiftningen.
DELGIVNING/UNDERRÄTTELSE
ARTIKEL 13
På begäran skall den anmodade tullmyndigheten, i enlighet med gällande lagstiftning inom den anmodade avtalsslutande partens territorium, delge/underrätta berörda fysiska eller juridiska personer som är bosatta eller etablerade inom dess territorium alla handlingar och beslut inom ramen för denna överenskommelse som härrör från den begärande tullmyndigheten.
BISTÅND MED INDRIVNING
ARTIKEL 14
1. På begäran skall den anmodade tullmyndigheten vidta nödvändiga åtgärder för att indriva tullfordringar. Sådana fordringar innefattar även skatter, andra avgifter och ränta på dessa som påförs och uppbärs av tullmyndigheterna i enlighet med tullagstiftningen.
2. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 skall endast tillämpas på fordringar vilka överstiger ett minimibelopp som skall fastställas i enlighet med artikel 18:1 och grundas på en handling som tillåter att de indrivs inom den begärande partens territorium.
3. Till en framställning om indrivning av en fordran skall bifogas en officiell eller bestyrkt kopia av den handling som tillåter indrivningen och en översättning enligt bestämmelserna i artikel 15:3.
4. Den handling som tillåter indrivning av fordringen skall, där så är lämpligt och i enlighet med gällande lagstiftning inom den anmodade avtalsslutande partens territorium, godtas, erkännas, kompletteras eller ersättas med en handling som tillåter indrivning inom territoriet ifråga.
5. Frågor om preskriptionstiden för en fordran skall regleras genom gällande lagstiftning inom den anmodade avtalsslutande partens territorium.
6. Fordringar som skall drivas in får inte ges förmånsrätt inom den anmodade avtalsslutande partens territorium.
7. En konkursansökan mot gäldenären på grundval av en fordran kan inges endast om de begärande och anmodade tullmyndigheterna kommer överens om detta. Kostnader till följd av konkursför-
farande skall betalas av den begärande tullmyndigheten.
8. Den anmodade tullmyndigheten kan tillåta uppskov med betalning, eller avbetalning, men skall först informera den begärande tullmyndigheten.
9. Ärenden angående förekomsten av eller storleken på fordringen eller den handling som tillåter att den indrivs får väckas endast inför vederbörande organ inom den begärande avtalsslutande partens territorium.
10. Fordringar skall drivas in i den anmodade avtalsslutande partens valuta, i enlighet med den officiella växelkurs som gällde den dag då framställningen togs emot.
11. Belopp som har drivits in skall överföras till den begärande tullmyndigheten, sedan man dragit av avgifter och kostnader som påförs i enlighet med gällande lagstiftning inom den anmodade avtalsslutande partens territorium.
BISTÅNDSFRAMSTÄLLNINGENS FORM OCH INNEHÅLL
ARTIKEL 15
1. Framställningar enligt denna överenskommelse skall göras skriftligen. De handlingar som behövs för att en sådan framställan skall kunna verkställas skall biläggas. I brådskande situationer kan även muntliga framställningar godtas. Sådana skall omedelbart bekräftas skriftligen.
2. Framställningar enligt punkt 1 skall innehålla upplysningar om
a) den tullmyndighet som gör framställningen,
b) den begärda åtgärden,
c) ändamålet med och orsaken till framställningen,
d) lagar, bestämmelser, föreskrifter och andra rättsliga grunder,
e) så noggranna och utförliga uppgifter som möjligt om de fysiska eller juridiska personer som är föremål för utredning,
f) en kortfattad redogörelse för omständigheterna, utom i de fall som behandlas i artikel 13.
3. Framställningar skall inlämnas på den anmodade avtalsslutande partens officiella språk, på engelska eller på något annat för den anmodade tullmyndigheten godtagbart språk.
4. Om en framställning inte uppfyller de formella kraven, kan rättelse eller komplettering begäras. Åtgärder i säkerhetssyfte påverkas inte därav.
UNDANTAG FRÅN SKYLDIGHETEN ATT LÄMNA BISTÅND
ARTIKEL 16
1. Om den anmodade tullmyndigheten anser att det begärda biståndet skulle strida mot den anmodade avtalsslutande partens suveränitet, allmänna rättsprinciper, säkerhet eller andra väsentliga intressen eller skulle innebära en kränkning av en industriell, kommersiell eller yrkesmässig hemlighet i denna avtalsslutande part, kan den vägra att lämna sådant bistånd, lämna det delvis eller göra det med vissa villkor eller förbehåll.
2. Om en framställning om bistånd inte kan följas skall den begärande tullmyndigheten utan dröjsmål underrättas om detta och skälen till att bistånd inte lämnas skall anges.
3. Om en tullmyndighet begär bistånd som den inte själv skulle kunna lämna om den blev anmodad till det av den andra avtalsslutande partens tullmyndighet, skall den framhålla detta i sin framställning. I sådant fall skall den anmodade tullmyndigheten ha handlingsfrihet att bestämma om den skall bifalla framställningen.
KOSTNADER
ARTIKEL 17
Varje tullmyndighet skall avstå från att kräva ersättning för kostnader som föranletts av att denna överenskommelse tillämpats, utom vad angår ersättning till sakkunniga, vittnen, tolkar och översättare samt de undantag som anges i artikel 14.
TILLÄMPNING
ARTIKEL 18
1. De avtalsslutande parternas tullmyndigheter skall anförtros att tillämpa denna överenskommelse. Dessa myndigheter skall gemensamt komma överens om tillämpningsbestämmelser.
2. De avtalsslutande parternas tullmyndigheter får vidta
åtgärder för att deras utredningsenheter skall kunna stå i direkt förbindelse med varandra.
TERRITORIELL TILLÄMPLIGHET
ARTIKEL 19
Denna överenskommelse skall tillämpas på båda avtalsslutande parternas territorium.
IKRAFTTRÄDANDE OCH UPPSÄGNING
ARTIKEL 20
1. Regeringarna skall på diplomatisk väg underrätta varandra när alla nationella rättsliga krav som är nödvändiga för ikraftträdande har uppfyllts. Överenskommelsen träder i kraft sextio dagar efter det att den sista underrättelsen tagits emot.
2. Denna överenskommelse kan sägas upp skriftligen på diplomatisk väg och upphör att gälla sex månader efter det att en sådan uppsägning tagits emot av den andra avtalsslutande parten.
Till bekräftelse härpå har undertecknade, därtill vederbörligen befullmäktigade, undertecknat denna överenskommelse.
Upprättad i Stockholm den 28 oktober 1997, i två exemplar på svenska, slovakiska och engelska språken, vilka tre texter äga lika vitsord. I fall av tvist om tolkningen av bestämmelserna i detta avtal skall den engelska texten äga företräde.
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.