Title: Lag (2009:1113) om avtal mellan Sverige och Caymanöarna för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning av fysiska personer
SFS Number: Svensk författningssamling 2009:1113
URL: https://www.riksdagen.se/sv/dokument-och-lagar/dokument/svensk-forfattningssamling/lag-20091113-om-avtal-mellan-sverige-och_sfs-2009-1113/
Source Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfst?bet=2009:1113
Amendment Register Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfsr?bet=2009:1113
Ministry/Authority: Finansdepartementet S3
Issued: 2009-11-19
Metadata: {"Utfärdad": "2009-11-19", "Ändrad": "t.o.m. SFS 2009:1406"}

==================================================

Lag (2009:1113) om avtal mellan Sverige och Caymanöarna för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning av fysiska personer
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.
SFS nr
:     
2009:1113
Departement/myndighet
:   
Finansdepartementet S3
Utfärdad
:   
2009-11-19
Ändrad
:   
t.o.m. SFS 2009:1406
Ändringsregister
:
SFSR (Regeringskansliet)
Källa
:
Fulltext (Regeringskansliet)
Innehåll:
Övergångsbestämmelser
1 §
Det avtal mellan Konungariket Sveriges regering och Caymanöarnas regering för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning av fysiska personer som undertecknades den 17 juni 2009 ska gälla som lag här i landet. Avtalet är avfattat på engelska och framgår av bilaga till denna lag.
2 §
Avtalets beskattningsregler ska tillämpas endast till den del dessa medför inskränkning av den skattskyldighet i Sverige som annars skulle föreligga.
3 §
Om en person som är obegränsat skattskyldig i Sverige förvärvar inkomst som enligt bestämmelserna i avtalet beskattas endast i Caymanöarna, ska sådan inkomst inte tas med vid beskattningen i Sverige.
Övergångsbestämmelser
2009:1113
1. Denna lag träder i kraft den dag regeringen bestämmer.
2. Denna lag ska tillämpas
a) i fråga om källskatter, på belopp som betalas eller tillgodoförs den 1 januari det år som närmast följer efter den dag då lagen träder i kraft eller senare, och
b) i fråga om andra skatter på inkomst, på skatter som tas ut för beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari det år som närmast följer efter den dag då lagen träder i kraft eller senare.
Bilaga
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN AND  THE GOVERNMENT OF THE CAYMAN ISLANDS FOR THE AVOIDANCE OF  DOUBLE TAXATION ON INDIVIDUALS
The Government of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Government of  the Cayman Islands, desiring to conclude an Agreement for the  avoidance of double taxation on individuals with respect to  taxes on income, have agreed as follows:
Article 1
Individuals covered
This Agreement shall apply to individuals who are residents  of one or both of the Parties.
Article 2
Taxes covered
1. The existing taxes to which the Agreement shall apply are:
(a) in the case of the Cayman Islands: any tax imposed by the  Cayman Islands which is substantially similar to the existing  taxes of Sweden to which this Agreement applies (hereinafter  referred to as "Cayman Islands tax");
(b) in the case of Sweden:
(i) den statliga inkomstskatten (the national income tax);
(ii) den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta (the  income tax on non-residents);
(iii) den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta  artister m.fl. (the income tax on non-resident artistes and  athletes); and
(iv) den kommunala inkomstskatten (the communal income tax) 
(hereinafter referred to as "Swedish tax").
2. The Agreement shall apply also to any identical or  substantially similar taxes that are imposed after the date  of signature of the Agreement in addition to, or in place of,  the existing taxes. The competent authorities of the Parties  shall notify each other of any significant changes that have  been made in their taxation laws concerning individuals.
	
Article 3
General definitions
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context  otherwise requires:
(a) the term "a Party" means the Cayman Islands or Sweden,  as the context requires; the term "Parties" means the Cayman  Islands and Sweden;
(b) the term "Cayman Islands" means the territory of the  Cayman Islands and includes the territorial sea, areas within  the maritime boundaries of the Cayman Islands and any area  within which in accordance with international law the rights  of the Cayman Islands with respect to the seabed and sub-soil  and their natural resources may be exercised;
(c) the term "Sweden" means the Kingdom of Sweden and, when  used in a geographical sense, includes the national  territory, the territorial sea of Sweden as well as other  maritime areas over which Sweden in accordance with  international law exercises sovereign rights or jurisdiction;
(d) the term "competent authority" means;
(i) in the case of the Cayman Islands, the Tax Information  Authority or a person or authority designated by it;
(ii) in the case of Sweden, the Minister of Finance, his  authorised representative or the authority which is  designated as a competent authority for the purposes of this  Agreement;
(e) the term "enterprise" applies to the carrying on of any  business;
(f) the term "international traffic" means any transport by a  ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise of a Party, except  when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places  in the other Party.
	
2. As regards the application of the Agreement at any time by  a Party, any term not defined therein shall, unless the  context otherwise requires, have the meaning that it has at  that time under the law of that Party, any meaning under the  applicable tax laws of that Party prevailing over a meaning  given to the term under other laws of that Party.
Article 4
Resident
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "resident of  a Party" means:
(a) in Sweden, in respect of an individual, any individual  who, under the laws of Sweden, is liable to tax therein by  reason of his domicile, residence or any other criterion of a  similar nature. This term, however, does not include an  individual who is liable to tax in Sweden in respect only of  income from sources in Sweden;
(b) in the Cayman Islands, in respect of an individual, any  individual, who under its laws, is recognised as a resident  by reason of his domicile, residence or any other criterion  of a similar nature.
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an  individual is a resident of both Parties, then his status  shall be determined as follows:
(a) he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the Party in  which he has a permanent home available to him; if he has a  permanent home available to him in both Parties, he shall be  deemed to be a resident only of the Party with which his  personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital  interests);
(b) if the Party in which he has his centre of vital  interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent  home available to him in either Party, he shall be deemed to  be a resident only of the Party in which he has an habitual  abode;
(c) if he has an habitual abode in both Parties or in neither  of them, the competent authorities of the Parties shall  settle the question by mutual agreement.
Article 5
Income from employment
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 6, 7, 8 and 9,  salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a  resident of a Party in respect of an employment shall be  taxable only in that Party unless the employment is exercised  in the other Party. If the employment is so exercised, such  remuneration as is derived there-from may be taxed in that  other Party.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1,  remuneration derived by a resident of a Party in respect of  an employment exercised in the other Party shall be taxable  only in the first-mentioned Party if:
(a) the recipient is present in the other Party for a period  or periods not exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any  twelve month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year  concerned; and
(b) the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer  who is not a resident of the other Party; and
(c) the remuneration is not borne by a fixed place of  business through which the business is wholly or partly  carried on which the employer has in the other Party.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article,  remuneration derived in respect of an employment exercised  aboard a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic  by an enterprise of a Party, may be taxed in that Party.
	
Article 6
Directors' fees
Directors' fees and other similar payments derived by a  resident of a Party in his capacity as a member of the board  of directors of a company which is a resident of the other  Party may be taxed in that other Party.
Article 7
Artistes and sportsmen
1. Income derived by a resident of a Party as an entertainer,  such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television  artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsman, from his personal  activities as such exercised in the other Party, may be taxed  in that other Party.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised  by an entertainer or a sportsman in his capacity as such  accrues not to the entertainer or sportsman himself but to  another individual or legal entity, that income may be taxed  in the Party in which the activities of the entertainer or  sportsman are exercised.
Article 8
Pensions
1. Pensions and other similar remuneration, disbursements  under the Social Security legislation and annuities arising  in a Party and paid to a resident of the other Party may be  taxed in the first-mentioned Party.
2. The term "annuity" means a stated sum payable periodically  at stated times during life or during a specified or  ascertainable period of time under an obligation to make the  payments in return for adequate and full consideration in  money or money's worth.
Article 9
Government service
1. (a) Salaries, wages and other similar remuneration, other  than a pension, paid by a Party or a political subdivision or  a statutory body or a local authority thereof to an  individual in respect of services rendered to that Party or  subdivision or body or authority shall be taxable only in  that Party.
(b) However, such salaries, wages and other similar  remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Party if the  services are rendered in that Party and the individual is a  resident of that Party who did not become a resident of that  Party solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
	
2. The provisions of Articles 5, 6 and 7 shall apply to  salaries, wages, and other similar remuneration in respect of  services rendered in connection with a business carried on by  a Party or a political subdivision or a statutory body or a  local authority thereof.
Article 10
Students
Payments which a student or business apprentice who is or was  immediately before visiting a Party a resident of the other  Party and who is present in the first-mentioned Party solely  for the purpose of his education or training receives for the  purpose of his maintenance, education or training shall not  be taxed in that Party, provided that such payments arise  from sources outside that Party.
Article 11
Elimination of double taxation
1. In the Cayman Islands double taxation shall be avoided in  accordance with the laws of the Cayman Islands.
2. In Sweden double taxation shall be avoided as follows:
	
(a) Where a resident of Sweden derives income which under the  laws of the Cayman Islands and in accordance with the  provisions of this Agreement may be taxed in the Cayman  Islands, Sweden shall allow-subject to the provisions of  the laws of Sweden concerning credit for foreign tax (as it  may be amended from time to time without changing the general  principle hereof)-as a deduction from the tax on such  income, an amount equal to the Cayman Islands tax paid in  respect of such income.
(b) Where a resident of Sweden derives income which, in  accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, shall be  taxable only in the Cayman Islands, Sweden may, when  determining the graduated rate of Swedish tax, take into  account the income which shall be taxable only in the Cayman  Islands.
Article 12
Mutual agreement procedure
1. Where an individual considers that the actions of one or  both of the Parties result or will result for him in taxation  not in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, he  may, irrespective of the remedies provided by the domestic  law of those Parties, present his case to the competent  authority of the Party of which he is a resident. The case  must be presented within three years from the first  notification of the action resulting in taxation not in  accordance with the provisions of the Agreement.
2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection  appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to  arrive at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by  mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other  Party, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not  in accordance with the Agreement. Any agreement reached shall  be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the  domestic law of the Parties.
3. The competent authorities of the Parties shall endeavour  to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties or doubts  arising as to the interpretation or application of the  Agreement.
4. The competent authorities of the Parties may communicate  with each other directly for the purpose of reaching an  agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs.
Article 13
Entry into force
1. Each of the Parties shall notify the other in writing of  the completion of the procedures required by its law for the  entry into force of this Agreement.
2. The Agreement shall enter into force on the thirtieth day  after the receipt of the later of these notifications and  shall thereupon have effect
(a) in the Cayman Islands:
(b) in Sweden:
(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid  or credited on or after the first day of January of the year  next following the date on which the Agreement enters into  force;
(ii) in respect of other taxes on income, on taxes chargeable  for any tax year beginning on or after the first day of  January of the year next following the date on which the  Agreement enters into force.
3. This Agreement shall have effect provided that the  Agreement signed on 1 April 2009 between the Government of  the Kingdom of Sweden and the Government of the Cayman  Islands concerning information on tax matters has effect.
	
Article 14
Termination
This Agreement shall remain in force until terminated by a  Party. Either Party may terminate the Agreement by giving  written notice of termination at least six months before the  end of any calendar year. In such case, the Agreement shall  cease to have effect
(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid  or credited on or after the first day of January of the year  next following the end of the six month period;
2) i fråga om andra skatter på inkomst, på skatter som tas ut  för beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari det år som följer  närmast efter utgången av sexmånadersperioden eller senare.
In witness whereof the undersigned being duly authorised  thereto have signed this Agreement.
Done at Paris this 17th day of June 2009, in duplicate in the  English language.
For the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden
Gunnar Lund
For the Government of the Cayman Islands
William McKeeva Bush
(Översättning)
AVTAL MELLAN KONUNGARIKET SVERIGES REGERING OCH CAYMANÖARNAS  REGERING FÖR UNDVIKANDE AV DUBBELBESKATTNING AV FYSISKA  PERSONER
	
Konungariket Sveriges regering och Caymanöarnas regering, som  önskar ingår ett avtal för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning av  fysiska personer beträffande skatter på inkomst, har kommit  överens om följande:
Artikel 1
Fysiska personer på vilka avtalet tillämpas
Detta avtal tillämpas på fysiska personer som har hemvist i  en part eller i båda parterna.
Artikel 2
Skatter som omfattas av avtalet
1. De för närvarande utgående skatter på vilka detta avtal  tillämpas är:
a) i Caymanöarna: varje skatt som tas ut i Caymanöarna och  som är av i huvudsak likartat slag som de för närvarande  utgående skatterna i Sverige på vilka detta avtal tillämpas 
(i det följande benämnda "skatt i Caymanöarna"),
b) i Sverige:
1) den statliga inkomstskatten,
2) den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta,
3) den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta  artister m.fl., och
4) den kommunala inkomstskatten
(i det följande benämnda "svensk skatt").
2. Avtalet tillämpas även på skatter av samma eller i  huvudsak likartat slag, som efter undertecknandet av avtalet  tas ut vid sidan av eller i stället för de för närvarande  utgående skatterna. Parternas behöriga myndigheter ska  meddela varandra de väsentliga ändringar som gjorts i  respektive skattelagstiftning beträffande fysiska personer.
Artikel 3
Allmänna definitioner
1. Om inte sammanhanget föranleder annat, har vid  tillämpningen av detta avtal följande uttryck nedan angiven  betydelse:
a) "en part" avser Caymanöarna eller Sverige, beroende på  sammanhanget; 
"parterna" avser Caymanöarna och Sverige,
b) "Caymanöarna" avser Caymanöarnas territorium och  innefattar dess territorialvatten och varje annat område inom  vilket Caymanöarna, i överensstämmelse med folkrättens  regler, äger  utöva rättigheter med avseende på havsbottnen och dess  underlag och  därtill hörande naturtillgångar,
c) "Sverige" avser Konungariket Sverige och innefattar, när  uttrycket används i geografisk betydelse, Sveriges  territorium, Sveriges territorialvatten och andra havsområden  över vilka Sverige, i överensstämmelse med folkrättens  regler, utövar suveräna  rättigheter eller jurisdiktion,
  d) "behörig myndighet" avser:
1) i Caymanöarna: "the Tax Information Authority" eller den  person eller myndighet som denna utnämner,
2) i Sverige: finansministern, dennes befullmäktigade ombud  eller den myndighet åt vilken uppdras att vara behörig  myndighet vid tillämpningen av detta avtal,
e) "företag" avser bedrivandet av varje form av rörelse,
f) "internationell trafik" avser transport med skepp eller  luftfartyg som används av ett företag i en part utom då  skeppet eller luftfartyget används uteslutande mellan platser  i den andra parten.
2. Då en part tillämpar avtalet vid någon tidpunkt anses,  såvida inte sammanhanget föranleder annat, varje uttryck som  inte definierats i avtalet ha den betydelse som uttrycket har  vid denna tidpunkt enligt den partens lagstiftning och den  betydelse som uttrycket har enligt tillämplig  skattelagstiftning  i denna part äger företräde framför den  betydelse uttrycket har enligt annan lagstiftning i denna  part.
Artikel 4
Hemvist
1. Vid tillämpningen av detta avtal avser uttrycket "person  med hemvist i en part":
a) i Sverige, såvitt avser fysisk person, varje fysisk person  som enligt lagstiftningen i Sverige är skattskyldig där på  grund av domicil, bosättning eller annan liknande  omständighet. Detta uttryck inbegriper emellertid inte  fysisk person som är skattskyldig i Sverige endast för  inkomst som har källa i Sverige,
  b) i Caymanöarna, så vitt avser fysisk person, varje fysisk  person som enligt dess lagstiftning har hemvist där på grund  av domicil, bosättning eller annan liknande omständighet.
	
2. Då en fysisk person på grund av bestämmelserna i punkt 1  har hemvist i båda parterna, bestäms hans hemvist på följande  sätt:
a) han anses ha hemvist endast i den part där han har en  bostad som stadigvarande står till hans förfogande. Om han  har en sådan bostad i båda parterna, anses han ha hemvist  endast  i den part med vilken hans personliga och ekonomiska  förbindelser är starkast (centrum för levnadsintressena),
b) om det inte kan avgöras i vilken part han har centrum för  sina levnadsintressen eller om han inte i någondera parten  har  en bostad som stadigvarande står till hans förfogande, anses  han ha hemvist endast i den part där han stadigvarande  vistas,¨
	
c) om han stadigvarande vistas i båda parterna eller inte  vistas stadigvarande i någon av dem, ska de behöriga  myndigheterna avgöra frågan genom ömsesidig  överenskommelse.
Artikel 5
Enskild tjänst
1. Om inte bestämmelserna i artiklarna 6, 7, 8 och 9  föranleder annat, beskattas lön och annan liknande ersättning  som person med hemvist i en part uppbär på grund av  anställning, endast i denna part, såvida arbetet inte utförts  i den andra  parten. Om arbetet utförts i denna andra part, får ersättning  som  uppbärs för arbetet beskattas där.
2. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i punkt 1, beskattas  ersättning som person med hemvist i en part uppbär för arbete  som utförts i den andra parten, endast i den förstnämnda  parten, om
a) mottagaren vistas i den andra parten under tidsperiod  eller tidsperioder som sammanlagt inte överstiger 183 dagar  under en tolvmånadersperiod som börjar eller slutar under  beskattningsåret i fråga, och
b) ersättningen betalas av arbetsgivare som inte har hemvist  i den andra parten eller på dennes vägnar, samt
c) ersättningen inte belastar en stadigvarande plats för  affärsverksamhet som arbetsgivaren har i den andra parten och  från vilken verksamheten helt eller delvis bedrivs.
3. Utan hinder av föregående bestämmelser i denna artikel får  ersättning för arbete, som utförs ombord på skepp eller  luftfartyg som används i internationell trafik av ett företag  i en part, beskattas i denna part.
Artikel 6
Styrelsearvode
Styrelsearvode och annan liknande ersättning, som person med  hemvist i en part uppbär i egenskap av medlem i styrelse i  bolag med hemvist i den andra parten, får beskattas i denna  andra part.
Artikel 7
Artister och sportutövare
1. Inkomst, som en person med hemvist i en part förvärvar  genom sin personliga verksamhet i den andra parten i egenskap  av artist, såsom teater eller filmskådespelare, radio- eller  televisionsartist eller musiker, eller i egenskap  av sportutövare, får beskattas i denna andra part.
2. I fall då inkomst genom personlig verksamhet, som artist  eller sportutövare utövar i denna egenskap, inte tillfaller  artisten eller sportutövaren själv utan annan fysisk eller  juridisk person, får denna inkomst beskattas i den part där  artisten eller sportutövaren utövar verksamheten.
Artikel 8
Pension
1. Pension och annan liknande ersättning, utbetalning enligt  socialförsäkringslagstiftningen och livränta, vilka härrör  från en part och betalas till en person med hemvist i den  andra parten, får beskattas i den förstnämnda parten.
2. Med uttrycket "livränta" förstås ett fastställt belopp,  som betalas periodiskt på fastställda tider under en persons  livstid eller under angiven eller fastställbar tidsperiod och  som utgår på grund av förpliktelse att verkställa dessa  utbetalningar som ersättning för däremot svarande vederlag i  pengar eller pengars värde.
Artikel 9
Offentlig tjänst
1. a) Lön och annan ersättning, med undantag för pension, som  betalas av en part, en av dess politiska underavdelningar,  offentligrättsliga organ eller lokala myndigheter till fysisk  person på grund av arbete som utförts i denna parts,  underavdelnings, organs eller myndighets tjänst,  beskattas endast i denna part.
b) Sådan lön och annan liknande ersättning beskattas  emellertid endast i den andra parten om arbetet utförts i  denna andra part och personen i fråga har hemvist i denna  part och inte fick hemvist i denna part uteslutande för att  utföra arbetet.
	
2. Bestämmelserna i artiklarna 5, 6 och 7 tillämpas på lön  och annan liknande ersättning som betalas på grund av arbete  som utförts i samband med rörelse som bedrivs av en part, en  av dess politiska underavdelningar, offentligrättsliga  organ eller lokala myndigheter.
Artikel 10
Studerande
Studerande eller affärspraktikant, som har eller omedelbart  före vistelse i en part hade hemvist i den andra parten och  som vistas i den förstnämnda parten uteslutande för sin  undervisning eller praktik, beskattas inte i denna part för  belopp som han erhåller för sitt uppehälle, sin undervisning  eller praktik, under förutsättning att beloppen härrör från  källa utanför denna part.
Artikel 11
Undanröjande av dubbelbeskattning
1. I Caymanöarna ska dubbelbeskattning undanröjas i enlighet  med lagstiftningen i Caymanöarna.
2. I Sverige ska dubbelbeskattning undanröjas på följande  sätt:
a) Om en person med hemvist i Sverige förvärvar inkomst som  enligt lagstiftningen i Caymanöarna och i enlighet med  bestämmelserna i detta avtal får beskattas i Caymanöarna, ska  Sverige-med beaktande av bestämmelserna i svensk  lagstiftning beträffande avräkning av utländsk skatt(även i  den lydelse de kan få genom att ändras utan att den allmänna  princip som anges här ändras)-från den svenska skatten  avräkna ett belopp motsvarande skatten i Caymanöarna som  erlagts på inkomsten.
b) Om en person med hemvist i Sverige förvärvar inkomst som  enligt bestämmelserna i detta avtal beskattas endast i  Caymanöarna, får Sverige vid bestämmandet av svensk  progressiv skatt beakta sådan inkomst som beskattas endast i  Caymanöarna.
Artikel 12
Förfarandet vid ömsesidig överenskommelse
1. Om en fysisk person anser att en part eller båda parterna  vidtagit åtgärder som för honom medför eller kommer att  medföra beskattning som strider mot bestämmelserna i detta  avtal, kan han, utan att det påverkar hans rätt att använda  sig av de rättsmedel som finns i dessa parters interna  rättsordning, lägga fram saken för den behöriga myndigheten i  den part där han har hemvist. Saken ska läggas fram inom tre  år från den tidpunkt då personen i fråga fick vetskap om den  åtgärd som givit upphov till beskattning som strider mot  bestämmelserna i avtalet.
2. Om den behöriga myndigheten finner invändningen grundad  men inte själv kan få till stånd en tillfredsställande  lösning, ska myndigheten söka avgöra saken genom ömsesidig  överenskommelse med den behöriga myndigheten i den andra  parten i syfte att undvika beskattning som strider mot  avtalet. Överenskommelse som träffats genomförs utan hinder  av tidsgränser i parternas interna lagstiftning.
3. Parternas behöriga myndigheter ska genom ömsesidig  överenskommelse söka avgöra svårigheter eller tvivelsmål som  uppkommer i fråga om tolkningen eller tillämpningen av  avtalet.
4. Parternas behöriga myndigheter kan träda i direkt  förbindelse med varandra i syfte att träffa överenskommelse i  den mening som avses i föregående punkter.
	
Artikel 13
Ikraftträdande
1. Vardera parten ska skriftligen underrätta den andra parten  när de åtgärder vidtagits enligt respektive parts  lagstiftning som krävs för att detta avtal ska  träda i kraft.
2. Avtalet träder i kraft den trettionde dagen efter den dag  då den sista av dessa underrättelser tas emot och tillämpas
a) i Caymanöarna:
i fråga om skatt i Caymanöarna, från och med nämnda dag,
b) i Sverige:
1) i fråga om källskatter, på belopp som betalas eller  tillgodoförs den 1 januari det år som följer närmast efter  den dag då avtalet träder i kraft eller senare,
2) i fråga om andra skatter på inkomst, på skatter som tas ut  för beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari det år som följer  närmast efter den dag då avtalet träder i kraft eller senare.
3. Detta avtal är tillämpligt under förutsättning att avtalet  mellan Konungariket Sveriges regering och Caymanöarnas  regering om upplysningar i skatteärenden undertecknat den 1  april 2009 är tillämpligt.
Artikel 14
Upphörande
Detta avtal förblir i kraft till dess det sägs upp av en  part. Vardera parten kan säga upp avtalet genom att lämna  skriftlig underrättelse härom minst sex månader före utgången  av något kalenderår. I händelse av sådan uppsägning upphör  avtalet att gälla
	
1) i fråga om källskatter, på belopp som betalas eller  tillgodoförs den 1 januari det år som följer närmast efter  utgången av sexmånadersperioden eller senare,
2) i fråga om andra skatter på inkomst, på skatter som tas ut  för beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari det år som följer  närmast efter utgången av sexmånadersperioden eller senare.
Till bekräftelse härav har undertecknade, därtill  vederbörligen bemyndigade, undertecknat detta avtal.
	
Som skedde i Paris den 17 juni 2009, i två exemplar på  engelska språket.
För Konungariket Sveriges regering
Gunnar Lund
För Caymanöarnas regering
William McKeeva Bush
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.