Title: Lag (2009:1114) om avtal mellan Sverige och Brittiska Jungfruöarna om utbyte av upplysningar avseende skatter
SFS Number: Svensk författningssamling 2009:1114
URL: https://www.riksdagen.se/sv/dokument-och-lagar/dokument/svensk-forfattningssamling/lag-20091114-om-avtal-mellan-sverige-och_sfs-2009-1114/
Source Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfst?bet=2009:1114
Amendment Register Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfsr?bet=2009:1114
Ministry/Authority: Finansdepartementet S3
Issued: 2009-11-19
Metadata: {"Utfärdad": "2009-11-19", "Ändrad": "t.o.m. SFS 2010:324"}

==================================================

Lag (2009:1114) om avtal mellan Sverige och Brittiska Jungfruöarna om utbyte av upplysningar avseende skatter
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.
SFS nr
:     
2009:1114
Departement/myndighet
:   
Finansdepartementet S3
Utfärdad
:   
2009-11-19
Ändrad
:   
t.o.m. SFS 2010:324
Ändringsregister
:
SFSR (Regeringskansliet)
Källa
:
Fulltext (Regeringskansliet)
Innehåll:
Övergångsbestämmelser
Det avtal om utbyte av upplysningar avseende skatter som Konungariket Sveriges regering och Brittiska Jungfruöarnas regering undertecknade den 18 maj 2009 ska gälla som lag här i landet. Avtalet är avfattat på engelska och framgår av bilaga till denna lag.
Övergångsbestämmelser
2009:1114
1. Denna lag träder i kraft den dag regeringen bestämmer.
2. Denna lag ska tillämpas för beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari året efter det år då lagen träder i kraft eller senare eller, om beskattningsår saknas, på skatt som tas ut den 1 januari året efter det år då lagen träder i kraft eller senare. I ärenden som utgör skattebrottsärenden enligt avtalet ska lagen dock tillämpas från och med ikraftträdandet.
Bilaga
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE BRITISH VIRGIN ISLANDS FOR THE EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION RELATING TO TAXES
Whereas the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Government of the British Virgin Islands ("the Contracting Parties") recognise the need for cooperation and the exchange of information in criminal and civil tax matters;
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Now, therefore, the Contracting Parties have concluded the following Agreement which contains obligations on the part of the Contracting Parties only.
Article 1
Scope of the Agreement
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting Parties shall provide assistance through exchange of information that is foreseeably relevant to the administration or enforcement of the domestic laws of the Contracting Parties concerning the taxes and the tax matters covered by this Agreement, including information that is foreseeably relevant to the determination, assessment, verification, enforcement, recovery or collection of tax claims with respect to persons subject to such taxes, or the investigation or prosecution of tax matters in relation to such persons. Information shall be exchanged in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and shall be treated as confidential in the manner provided in Article 8.
2. This Agreement shall not affect the application in the respective Contracting Parties of the rules on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters.
Article 2
Jurisdiction
To enable the appropriate implementation of this Agreement, information shall be provided in accordance with this Agreement by the competent authority of the Requested Party:
(a) without regard to whether the person to whom the information relates is a resident or national of a Contracting Party, or whether the person by whom the information is held is a resident or national of a Contracting Party; and
(b) provided that the information is present within the territory, or in the possession or control of a person subject to the jurisdiction, of the Requested Party.
Article 3
Taxes covered
1. The taxes covered by this Agreement are:
(a) in the case of the British Virgin Islands,
(i) the income tax;
(ii) the payroll tax; and
(iii) the property tax
(b) in the case of Sweden,
(i) the national income tax (den statliga inkomstskatten);
(ii) the withholding tax on dividends (kupongskatten);
(iii) the income tax on non-residents (den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta);
(iv) the income tax on non-resident artistes and athletes
(den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta artister m.fl.);
(v) the municipal income tax (den kommunala inkomstskatten);
(vi) the yield tax on pension funds (avkastningsskatten på pensionsmedel);
(vii) the value added tax (mervärdesskatten);
(viii) the tax on advertisements and advertising (skatten på annonser och reklam);
(ix) the premium tax on group life insurance etc. (den särskilda premieskatten för grupplivförsäkring, m.m.);
(x) the lottery tax (lotteriskatten);
(xi) the tobacco excise duty (tobaksskatten);
(xii) the alcohol excise duty (alkoholskatten);
(xiii) the premium tax on insurance against civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles (skatten på trafikförsäkringspremie m.m.); and
(xiv) the energy tax (skatten på energi).
2. This Agreement shall also apply to any identical or substantially similar taxes imposed by either Party after the date of signature of this Agreement in addition to, or in place of, any of the taxes listed in paragraph 1 of this Article. The competent authorities of the Contracting Parties shall notify each other of any relevant changes to the taxation and related information gathering measures covered by this Agreement.
Article 4
Definitions
1. In this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires -
(a) "British Virgin Islands" means the territory of the Virgin Islands as referred to in the Virgin Islands Constitution Order 2007;
(b) "Sweden" means the Kingdom of Sweden and, when used in a geographical sense, includes the national territory, the territorial sea of Sweden as well as other maritime areas over which Sweden in accordance with international law exercises sovereign rights or jurisdiction;
(c) "collective investment fund or scheme" means any pooled investment vehicle irrespective of legal form;
(d) "company" means any body corporate or any entity that is treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;
(e) "competent authority" means
(i) in the case of the British Virgin Islands, the Financial Secretary or a person or authority designated by him in writing;
(ii) in the case of Sweden, the Minister of Finance, his authorised representative or the authority which is designated as a competent authority for the purposes of this Agreement;
(f) "Contracting Party" means the British Virgin Islands or Sweden as the context requires;
(g) "criminal laws" means all criminal laws designated as such under domestic law  irrespective of whether contained in the tax laws, the criminal code or other laws;
(h) "criminal tax matters" means tax matters involving intentional conduct which is liable to prosecution under the criminal laws of the Requesting Party;
(i) "information" means any fact, statement, document or record in whatever form;
(j) "information gathering measures" means laws, regulations and administrative or judicial procedures that enable a Requested Party to obtain and provide the requested information;
(k) "national" means
(i) in relation to the British Virgin Islands, any person who belongs to the British Virgin Islands by virtue of the Virgin Islands Constitution Order 2007 (Statutory Instrument 2007 No. 1678) or has a certificate of residence of the British Virgin Islands by virtue of the Immigration and Passport Ordinance (Cap.130); and any legal person, partnership, association or other entity deriving its status as such from the laws in force in the British Virgin Islands;
(ii) in relation to Sweden any individual possessing the nationality of Sweden, and any legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in Sweden;
(l) "person" includes an individual, a company and any other body or group of persons;
(m) "principal class of shares" means the class or classes of shares representing a majority of the voting power and value of the company;
(n) "public collective investment fund or scheme" means any collective investment fund or scheme, in which the purchase, sale or redemption of shares or other interests is not implicitly or explicitly restricted to a limited group of investors;
(o) "publicly traded company" means any company whose principal class of shares is listed on a recognised stock exchange provided its listed shares can be readily purchased or sold by the public. Shares can be purchased or sold "by the public" if the purchase or sale of shares is not implicitly or explicitly restricted to a limited group of investors;
(p) "recognised stock exchange" means any stock exchange agreed upon by the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties;
(q) "Requested Party" means the Contracting Party to this Agreement which is requested to provide or has provided information in response to a request;
(r) "Requesting Party" means the Contracting Party to this Agreement submitting a request for or having received information from the Requested Party;
(s) "tax" means any tax covered by this Agreement.
2. As regards the application of this Agreement at any time by a Contracting Party, any term not defined therein shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the meaning that it has at that time under the law of that Contracting Party, any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that Contracting Party prevailing over a meaning given to the term under other laws of that Contracting Party.
Article 5
Exchange of information upon request
1. The competent authority of the Requested Party shall provide upon request in writing by the Requesting Party information for the purposes referred to in Article 1.  Such information shall be exchanged without regard to whether the conduct being investigated would constitute a crime under the laws of the Requested Party if it occurred in the territory of the Requested Party. If the information received by the competent authority of the Requested Party is not sufficient to enable it to comply with the request for information, it shall, in accordance with the terms provided in paragraph 7
(a), advise the competent authority of the Requesting Party of that fact and request such additional information as may be required to enable the effective processing of the request.
2. If the information in possession of the competent authority of the Requested Party is not sufficient to enable it to comply with the request for the information, the Requested Party shall use all relevant information gathering measures to provide the Requesting Party with the information requested, notwithstanding that the Requested Party may not need such information for its own tax purposes.
3. If specifically requested by the competent authority of the Requesting Party, the competent authority of the Requested Party shall provide information under this Article, to the extent allowable under its domestic laws, in the form of depositions of witnesses and authenticated copies of original records.
4. Each Contracting Party shall ensure that its competent authority, for the purposes of this Agreement, has the authority to obtain and provide upon request:
(a) information held by banks, other financial institutions, and any person, including nominees and trustees, acting in an agency or fiduciary capacity;
(b) information regarding the legal and beneficial ownership of companies, partnerships and other persons, including, within the constraints of Article 2, ownership information on all such persons in an ownership chain; and in the case of trusts, information on settlors, trustees, beneficiaries and protectors; and in the case of foundations, information on founders, members of the foundation council and beneficiaries, and equivalent information in the case of entities that are neither trusts nor foundations.
5. Notwithstanding the preceding paragraphs, this Agreement does not create an obligation on the Contracting Parties to obtain or provide:
(a) ownership information with respect to publicly traded companies or public collective investment funds or schemes, unless such information can be obtained without giving rise to disproportionate difficulties;
(b) information relating to a period more than six years prior to the tax period under consideration;
(c) information in the possession or control of a person other than the taxpayer that does not directly relate to the taxpayer.
6. The competent authority of the Requesting Party shall provide the following information to the competent authority of the Requested Party when making a request for information under this Agreement in order to demonstrate the foreseeable relevance of the information to the request:
(a) the identity of the person under examination or investigation;
(b) the period for which the information is requested;
(c) the nature and type of the information requested, including a description of the specific evidence sought and the form in which the Requesting Party would prefer to receive the information;
(d) the tax purposes for which the information is sought and the reasons why the information requested is foreseeably relevant to the administration or enforcement of the domestic laws of the Requesting Party;
(e) grounds for believing that the information requested is present in the territory of the Requested Party or is in the possession or control of a person subject to the jurisdiction of the Requested Party;
(f) to the extent known, the name and address of any person believed to be in possession or control of the information requested;
(g) a declaration that the request is in conformity with this Agreement and the laws and administrative practices of the Requesting Party, and that if the requested information were within the jurisdiction of the Requesting Party then the competent authority of the Requesting Party would be able to obtain the information under the laws of the Requesting Party or in the normal course of administrative practice;
(h) a statement that the Requesting Party has pursued all means available in its own territory to obtain the information, except those that would give rise to disproportionate difficulties.
7. The competent authority of the Requested Party shall forward the requested information as promptly as possible to the competent authority of the Requesting Party. To ensure a prompt response:
(a) the competent authority of the Requested Party shall confirm the receipt of a request in writing to the competent authority of the Requesting Party and shall notify the competent authority of the Requesting Party of any deficiencies in the request within 60 days of receipt of the request; and
(b) if the competent authority of the Requested Party has been unable to obtain and provide the information requested within 90 days of receipt of the request, or if obstacles are encountered in furnishing the information, or if the competent authority of the Requested Party refuses to provide the information, it shall immediately inform the competent authority of the Requesting Party in writing, explaining the reasons for its inability to obtain and provide the information, or the obstacles encountered, or the reasons for its refusal.
Article 6
Tax examinations or investigations abroad
1. The Requested Party may, to the extent permitted under its domestic laws, and following reasonable notice from the Requesting Party, allow representatives of the competent authority of the Requesting Party to enter the territory of the Requested Party in connection with a request to interview persons and examine records with the  written consent of the persons concerned. The competent authority of the Requesting Party shall notify the competent authority of the Requested Party of the time and place of the meeting with the persons concerned.
2. At the request of the competent authority of the Requesting Party, the competent authority of the Requested Party may, in accordance with its domestic laws, permit representatives of the competent authority of the Requesting Party to be present at the appropriate part of a tax examination in the territory of the Requested Party.
3. If the request referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article is granted, the competent authority of the Requested Party conducting the examination shall, as soon as possible, notify the competent authority of the Requesting Party of the time and place of the examination, the authority or person authorised to carry out the examination and the procedures and conditions required by the Requested Party for the conduct of the examination.  All decisions regarding the conduct of the examination shall be made by the Requested Party conducting the examination in accordance with its domestic laws.
Article 7
Possibility of declining a request
1. The competent authority of the Requested Party may decline to assist:
(a) where the request is not made in conformity with this Agreement; or
(b) where the Requesting Party has not pursued all means available in its own territory to obtain the information, except where recourse to such means would give rise to disproportionate difficulties; or
(c) where the disclosure of the information requested would be contrary to public policy (ordre public).
2. The provisions of this Agreement shall not impose upon a Contracting Party any obligation to provide information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional secret or trade process. Information described in paragraph 4 of Article 5 shall not by reason of that fact alone constitute such a secret or process.
3. (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall not impose on a Contracting Party the obligation to obtain or provide information which would reveal confidential communications between a client and an attorney, solicitor or barrister where such communications are:
(i) produced for the purposes of seeking or providing legal advice, or
(ii) produced for the purposes of use in existing or contemplated legal proceedings.
(b) Information held with the intention of furthering an offence is not subject to legal privilege, and nothing in this Article shall prevent an attorney, solicitor or barrister from providing the name and address of a client where doing so would not constitute a breach of legal privilege.
4. A request for information shall not be refused on the ground that the tax liability giving rise to the request is disputed by the taxpayer.
5. The Requested Party shall not be required to obtain and provide information which, if the requested information was within the jurisdiction of the Requesting Party, the competent authority of the Requesting Party would not be able to obtain under its laws or in the normal course of administrative practice.
6. The Requested Party may decline a request for information if the information is requested by the Requesting Party to administer or enforce a provision of the tax law of the Requesting Party, or any requirement connected therewith, which discriminates against a resident or national of the Requested Party as compared with a resident or national of the Requesting Party in the same circumstances.
Article 8
Confidentiality
1. All information provided and received by the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties shall be kept confidential and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities (including courts and administrative bodies)
concerned with the purposes specified in Article 1 and used by such persons or authorities only for such purposes, including the determination of any appeal or the oversight of the above. For these purposes, information may be disclosed in public court proceedings or in judicial proceedings.
2. The information may not be disclosed to any other person or entity or authority without the express written consent of the competent authority of the Requested Party.
3. Information provided to a Requesting Party shall not be disclosed to any other jurisdiction.
Article 9
Safeguards
Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the rights and safeguards secured to persons by the laws or administrative practice of the Requested Party. However, these rights and safeguards may not be applied by the Requested Party in a manner that unduly prevents or delays effective exchange of information.
Article 10
Administrative costs
1. Incidence of ordinary costs incurred in the course of responding to a request for information will be borne by the Requested Party.  Such ordinary costs would normally cover internal administration costs and any minor external costs.
2. All other costs that are not ordinary costs are considered extraordinary costs and will be borne by the Requesting Party. Extraordinary costs include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a) reasonable fees charged by third parties for carrying out research;
(b) reasonable fees charged by third parties for copying documents;
(c) reasonable costs of engaging experts, interpreters, or translators;
(d) reasonable costs of conveying documents to the Requesting Party;
(e) reasonable litigation costs of the Requested Party in relation to a specific request for information; and
(f) reasonable costs for obtaining depositions or testimony.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting Parties will consult each other in any particular case where extraordinary costs are likely to exceed $US 500 to determine whether the Requesting Party will continue to pursue the request and bear the cost.
Article 11
No prejudicial or restrictive measures
1. So long as this Agreement is in force and effective, it is the intention of the Contracting Parties not to apply or introduce prejudicial or restrictive measures based on harmful tax practices to residents or nationals of either Contracting Party. However, in the event that a Contracting Party has reason to believe that the other Contracting Party has introduced such prejudicial or restrictive measures, both Contracting Parties shall immediately initiate proceedings to resolve the matter.
2. A prejudicial or restrictive measure based on harmful tax practices means a measure applied by one Contracting Party to residents or nationals of the other Contracting Party on the basis that the other Contracting Party does not engage in effective exchange of information or because it lacks transparency in the operation of its laws, regulations or administrative practices, or on the basis of no or nominal taxes and one of the preceding criteria.
3. Without limiting the generality of the term "prejudicial or restrictive measure", the term includes the denial of a deduction, credit or exemption, the imposition of a tax, charge or levy, or special reporting requirements. Such measures include any measure which relates, directly or indirectly, to taxation matters. However, they do not include any generally applicable measure, applied by either Contracting Party against, amongst others, members of the OECD generally.
Article 12
Implementing legislation
The Contracting Parties shall (where they have not already done so) enact any legislation necessary to comply with, and give effect to, the terms of this Agreement.
Article 13
Language
Requests for assistance and responses thereto shall be drawn up in English.
Article 14
Mutual agreement procedure
1. Where difficulties or doubts arise between the Contracting Parties regarding the implementation or interpretation of this Agreement, the competent authorities shall use their best efforts to resolve the matter by mutual agreement.
2. In addition to the efforts referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties may mutually determine the procedures to be used under Articles 5, 6 and 10.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting Parties may communicate with each other directly for the purposes of reaching agreement under this Article.
Article 15
Entry into force
1. Each of the Contracting Parties shall notify to the other in writing of the completion of the procedures required by its law for the entry into force of this Agreement.
2. The Agreement shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the receipt of the later of these notifications and shall thereupon have effect:
(a) for criminal tax matters, from the date of entry into force; and
(b) for all other matters covered in Article 1, on taxable periods beginning on or after the first day of January of the year next following the date on which the Agreement enters into force, or where there is no taxable period, for all charges to tax arising on or after the first day of January of the year next following the date on which the Agreement enters into force.
Article 16
Termination
1. This Agreement shall remain in force until terminated by a Contracting Party.
2. Either Contracting Party may terminate the Agreement, through diplomatic channels, by giving written notice of termination to the other Contracting Party. In such case, the Agreement shall cease to have effect on the first day of the month following the end of the period of six months after the date of receipt of notice of termination by the other Contracting Party.
3. If the Agreement is terminated the Contracting Parties shall remain bound by the provisions of Article 8 with respect to any information obtained under this Agreement.
In witness whereof the undersigned being duly authorised in that behalf by the respective parties, have signed this Agreement.
Done at Copenhagen, this 18th day of May 2009, in duplicate in the English language.
For the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden
Lars Grundberg
For the Government of the British Virgin Islands
Danica Penn
(Översättning)
AVTAL MELLAN KONUNGARIKET SVERIGES REGERING OCH BRITTISKA JUNGFRUÖARNAS REGERING OM UTBYTE AV UPPLYSNINGAR AVSEENDE SKATTER
Då Konungariket Sveriges regering och Brittiska Jungfruöarnas regering ("de avtalsslutande parterna") erkänner behovet av samarbete och utbyte av information i skattebrottsärenden och andra skatteärenden,
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
har de avtalsslutande parterna ingått följande avtal, vilket medför skyldigheter endast för de avtalsslutande parterna.
Artikel 1
Avtalets tillämpningsområde
1. De avtalsslutande parternas behöriga myndigheter ska biträda varandra med handräckning genom utbyte av upplysningar som kan antas vara relevanta vid tillämpning eller verkställighet av de avtalsslutande parternas interna lagstiftning avseende de skatter och de skatteärenden som omfattas av detta avtal, däri inbegripet uppgifter som kan antas vara relevanta för fastställande, taxering, verifiering eller uppbörd samt för indrivning eller verkställighet beträffande skattefordringar, såvitt avser personer som är skattskyldiga för sådana skatter eller för utredning eller åtal i skatteärenden i fråga om sådana personer. Upplysningar ska utbytas i enlighet med bestämmelserna i detta avtal och ska hållas hemliga på sätt som anges i artikel 8.
2. Detta avtal ska inte påverka tillämpligheten i parterna av bestämmelserna om ömsesidig rättslig hjälp i brottmål.
Artikel 2
Jurisdiktion
För att möjliggöra en korrekt tillämpning av detta avtal ska upplysningar lämnas i enlighet med detta avtal av den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten:
a) oavsett om den person som upplysningarna avser har hemvist eller är medborgare i en avtalsslutande part eller om den person som innehar upplysningarna har hemvist eller är medborgare i en avtalsslutande part, och
b) under förutsättning att upplysningarna finns tillgängliga inom territoriet eller innehas eller kontrolleras av en person som omfattas av den anmodade partens jurisdiktion.
Artikel 3
Skatter som omfattas av avtalet
1. Skatterna som omfattas av detta avtal är:
a) i fråga om Brittiska Jungfruöarna,
1) inkomstskatten,
2) skatten på löneutbetalningar, och
3) fastighetsskatten
b) i fråga om Sverige,
1) den statliga inkomstskatten,
2) kupongskatten,
3) den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta,
4) den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta artister m.fl.,
5) den kommunala inkomstskatten,
6) avkastningsskatten på pensionsmedel,
7) mervärdesskatten,
8) skatten på annonser och reklam,
9) den särskilda premieskatten för grupplivförsäkring, m.m.,
10) lotteriskatten,
11) tobaksskatten,
12) alkoholskatten,
13) skatten på trafikförsäkringspremie m.m., och
14) skatten på energi.
2. Detta avtal tillämpas även på skatter av samma eller i huvudsak likartat slag som efter undertecknandet av avtalet tas ut i någon av parterna vid sidan av eller i stället för någon av de i punkt 1 i denna artikel uppräknade skatterna.
De avtalsslutande parternas behöriga myndigheter ska meddela varandra om relevanta ändringar som gjorts avseende den skattelagstiftning och de åtgärder för att inhämta upplysningar som omfattas av detta avtal.
Artikel 4
Definitioner
1. Om inte sammanhanget föranleder annat har i detta avtal följande uttryck nedan angiven betydelse:
a) "Brittiska Jungfruöarna" avser Jungfruöarnas territorium så som det anges i Jungfruöarnas "Constitution Order 2007",
b) "Sverige" avser Konungariket Sverige och innefattar, när uttrycket används i geografisk betydelse, Sveriges territorium, Sveriges territorialvatten och andra havsområden över vilka Sverige, i överensstämmelse med folkrättens regler, utövar suveräna rättigheter eller jurisdiktion,
c) "kollektiv investeringsfond eller kollektivt investeringssystem" avser alla åtaganden för kollektiva investeringar, oavsett juridisk form,
d) "bolag" avser juridisk person eller annan som vid beskattningen behandlas såsom juridisk person,
e) "behörig myndighet" avser
1) i fråga om Brittiska Jungfruöarna, finansministern eller person eller myndighet som skriftligen förordnas av honom,
2) i fråga om Sverige, finansministern, dennes befullmäktigade ombud eller den myndighet åt vilken uppdras att vara behörig myndighet vid tillämpningen av detta avtal,
f) "avtalsslutande part" avser Brittiska Jungfruöarna eller Sverige beroende på sammanhanget,
g) "strafflagstiftning" avser all strafflagstiftning som benämns som sådan i intern lagstiftning oberoende av om den återfinns i skattelagstiftningen,  strafflagstiftningen eller andra författningar,
h) "skattebrottsärenden" avser skatteärenden som omfattar uppsåtligt handlande vilket enligt strafflagstiftningen i den anmodande parten kan bli föremål för åtal,
i) "upplysningar" avser varje faktauppgift, meddelande, handling eller annan dokumentation oavsett form,
j) "åtgärder för att inhämta upplysningar" avser lagstiftning, föreskrifter och administrativa åtgärder eller domstolsåtgärder vilka möjliggör för en anmodad part att inhämta och lämna begärda upplysningar,
k) "medborgare" avser
1) såvitt avser Brittiska Jungfruöarna, person som tillhör Brittiska Jungfruöarna med stöd av Jungfruöarnas
"Constitution Order 2007 (Statutory Instrument 2007 No. 1678)" eller som har ett intyg om hemvist i Brittiska Jungfruöarna med stöd av "the Immigration and Passport Ordinance (Cap.130)" och juridisk person, handelsbolag, association eller annat subjekt som bildats enligt gällande lagstiftning i Brittiska Jungfruöarna,
2) såvitt avser Sverige, fysisk person som innehar svenskt medborgarskap eller juridisk person, handelsbolag eller association som bildats enligt gällande svensk lagstiftning,
l) "person" inbegriper fysisk person, bolag och varje annan personsammanslutning,
m) "viktigaste aktieslag" avser det eller de aktieslag som representerar majoriteten av rösterna i och värdet av bolaget,
n) "publik kollektiv investeringsfond eller publikt kollektivt investeringssystem" avser varje kollektiv investeringsfond eller kollektivt investeringssystem i vilken köp, försäljning eller inlösen av aktier eller andra rättigheter inte underförstått eller uttryckligen begränsats till en avgränsad krets av investerare,
o) "bolag vars aktier är föremål för allmän omsättning" avser ett bolag vars viktigaste aktieslag är noterat på en erkänd aktiebörs under förutsättning att dess noterade aktier fritt kan köpas eller säljas av allmänheten. Aktier kan köpas eller säljas "av allmänheten" om köp eller försäljning av aktier inte underförstått eller uttryckligen begränsats till en avgränsad krets av investerare,
p) "erkänd aktiebörs" avser sådan börs som de avtalsslutande parternas behöriga myndigheter har kommit överens om,
q) "anmodad part" avser den avtalsslutande part enligt detta avtal som på begäran anmodats att lämna eller har lämnat upplysningar,
r) "anmodande part" avser den avtalsslutande part enligt detta avtal som begär eller har tagit emot upplysningar från den anmodade parten,
s) "skatt" avser varje skatt som omfattas av detta avtal.
2. Då en avtalsslutande part tillämpar detta avtal vid någon tidpunkt anses, såvida inte sammanhanget föranleder annat, varje uttryck som inte definierats i avtalet ha den betydelse som uttrycket har vid denna tidpunkt enligt den avtalsslutande partens lagstiftning och den betydelse som uttrycket har enligt tillämplig skattelagstiftning i denna avtalsslutande part äger företräde framför den betydelse som uttrycket har enligt annan lagstiftning i denna avtalsslutande part.
Artikel 5
Utbyte av upplysningar på begäran
1. Den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten ska på begäran skriftligen lämna upplysningar för de ändamål som anges i artikel 1. Sådana upplysningar ska utbytas utan avseende på om det handlande som är föremål för utredning skulle ha utgjort ett brott enligt lagstiftningen i den anmodade parten om det ägt rum inom den anmodade partens territorium. Om den information som tagits emot av den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten inte är tillräcklig för att tillmötesgå en begäran om upplysningar, ska denna behöriga myndighet, i enlighet med bestämmelserna i punkt 7 a), informera den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten om detta och ange vad som ytterligare krävs för att bifalla begäran.
2. Om de upplysningar som är tillgängliga för den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten inte räcker till för att tillmötesgå en begäran om upplysningar, ska den anmodade parten vidta alla relevanta åtgärder för att inhämta och lämna de begärda upplysningarna, utan hinder av att den anmodade parten kanske inte har behov av upplysningarna för sina egna beskattningsändamål.
3. Om den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten särskilt begär det, ska den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten - i den utsträckning som detta är tillåtet enligt dess interna lagstiftning - lämna upplysningar enligt denna artikel i form av skriftliga vittnesberättelser och bestyrkta kopior av handlingar.
4. Vardera avtalsslutande parten ska säkerställa att dess behöriga myndighet, för tillämpningen av detta avtal, har befogenhet att på begäran inhämta och lämna:
a) upplysningar som innehas av banker, andra finansiella institutioner och annan person, däri inbegripet ombud och trustförvaltare, som agerar i egenskap av representant eller förvaltare,
b) upplysningar om de legala och verkliga ägarförhållandena i bolag, handelsbolag och andra personer, däri inbegripet - med de begränsningar som följer av artikel 2 - upplysningar om ägarförhållandena avseende alla sådana personer i en ägarkedja; i fråga om truster, upplysningar om stiftare, förvaltare, förmånstagare och "protectors", i fråga om stiftelser, upplysningar om stiftare, medlemmar i styrelsen och destinatärer samt motsvarande upplysningar i fråga om subjekt som varken är truster eller stiftelser.
5. Utan hinder av föregående punkter medför inte detta avtal någon skyldighet för de avtalsslutande parterna att inhämta eller lämna:
a) upplysningar om ägarförhållandena i bolag vars aktier är föremål för allmän omsättning, i publik kollektiv investeringsfond eller i publikt kollektivt investeringssystem, såvida inte sådana upplysningar kan inhämtas utan att det medför oproportionerligt stora svårigheter,
b) upplysningar som avser tid mer än sex år före den beskattningsperiod som är föremål för bedömning,
c) upplysningar som annan person än den skattskyldige innehar eller kontrollerar och som inte direkt berör den skattskyldige.
6. Vid begäran om upplysningar enligt detta avtal ska den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten lämna följande upplysningar till den behöriga myndigheten i den andra parten, för att visa betydelsen av de efterfrågade upplysningarna:
a) identiteten på den person som är föremål för utredning eller undersökning,
b) för vilken tidsperiod upplysningar begärs,
c) de begärda upplysningarnas beskaffenhet, däri inbegripet en beskrivning av vilka bevis som specifikt efterfrågas och i vilken form som den anmodande parten önskar att upplysningarna ska lämnas,
d) de beskattningsändamål för vilka de begärda upplysningarna efterfrågas och varför de kan antas vara relevanta för tillämpningen eller verkställigheten av den anmodande partens interna lagstiftning,
e) skälen för att anta att de begärda upplysningarna finns tillgängliga inom den anmodade partens territorium eller innehas eller kontrolleras av person som omfattas av den anmodade partens jurisdiktion,
f) såvitt det är känt, namn och adress på person som kan antas inneha eller kontrollera de begärda upplysningarna,
g) uppgift om att begäran är i överensstämmelse med detta avtal och lagstiftning och administrativ praxis i den anmodande parten och att den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten - om de begärda upplysningarna fanns inom denna parts jurisdiktion - skulle kunna inhämta upplysningarna enligt lagstiftning eller vedertagen administrativ praxis i den anmodande parten,
h) uppgift om att den anmodande parten har vidtagit alla åtgärder för att inhämta upplysningarna som står till dess förfogande inom dess eget territorium, utom sådana åtgärder som skulle medföra oproportionerligt stora svårigheter.
7. Den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten ska snarast möjligt lämna de begärda upplysningarna till den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten. För att tillgodose ett skyndsamt svar:
a) ska den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten skriftligen bekräfta mottagandet av begäran till den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten, och inom 60 dagar efter mottagandet underrätta den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten om eventuella brister i begäran, och
b) om den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten inte har kunnat inhämta och lämna de begärda upplysningarna inom 90 dagar från det att begäran togs emot, eller om det föreligger förhinder att lämna upplysningarna, eller om den behöriga myndigheten vägrar att lämna upplysningarna, ska den omedelbart skriftligen underrätta den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten om detta och ange skälen för att den inte kunnat inhämta och tillhandahålla upplysningarna eller ange vilka hinder som föreligger eller skälen för dess vägran.
Artikel 6
Utomlands utförda skatteutredningar
1. Den anmodade parten får, i den utsträckning som detta är tillåtet enligt dess interna lagstiftning och efter skäligt varsel från den anmodande parten, tillåta att representanter för den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten närvarar i den anmodade parten i samband med en begäran om att höra personer och granska handlingar efter skriftligt medgivande av de berörda personerna. Den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten ska underrätta den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten om tid och plats för mötet med de berörda personerna.
2. På begäran av den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten får den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten i enlighet med dess interna lagstiftning tillåta att representanter för den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten närvarar till den del detta anses lämpligt vid skatteutredning inom den anmodade partens territorium.
3. Bifalls en begäran enligt punkt 2 i denna artikel ska den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten som utför utredningen snarast möjligt underrätta den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten om tid och plats för utredningen, om den myndighet eller person som bemyndigats att utföra utredningen samt om de förfaranden och villkor som den anmodade parten fastställt för utförandet av utredningen.
Alla beslut beträffande utförandet av utredningen ska fattas av den anmodade parten som utför utredningen i enlighet med dess interna lagstiftning.
Artikel 7
Möjlighet att avslå en begäran
1. Den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten får avslå en begäran:
a) när begäran inte har gjorts i överensstämmelse med detta avtal, eller
b) när den anmodande parten inte har vidtagit alla de åtgärder för att inhämta upplysningarna som står till dess förfogande inom dess eget territorium, utom i de fall då vidtagandet av sådana åtgärder skulle medföra oproportionerligt stora svårigheter, eller
c) när lämnandet av begärda upplysningar skulle strida mot allmänna hänsyn (ordre public).
2. Bestämmelserna i detta avtal ska inte medföra skyldighet för en avtalsslutande part att lämna upplysningar som skulle röja handels-, affärs-, industri- eller yrkeshemlighet eller kommersiell hemlighet eller i näringsverksamhet nyttjat förfaringssätt. Upplysningar ska inte anses som sådan hemlighet eller sådant förfaringssätt endast på grund av att de utgör sådana upplysningar som anges i artikel 5 punkt 4.
3. a) Bestämmelserna i detta avtal ska inte medföra skyldighet för en avtalsslutande part att inhämta eller lämna upplysningar som skulle röja hemlig kommunikation mellan en klient och dennes advokat eller annat juridiskt ombud, när sådan kommunikation har:
1) förevarit i syfte att söka eller lämna juridisk rådgivning, eller
2) förevarit i syfte att användas under pågående eller förestående rättsliga förfaranden.
b) Upplysningar som innehas i syfte att främja en lagöverträdelse omfattas inte av tystnadsplikt i samband med juridisk rådgivning och inget i denna artikel ska hindra en advokat eller annat juridiskt ombud från att lämna ut en klients namn och adress när detta inte innebär ett brott mot tystnadsplikten.
4. En begäran om upplysningar ska inte avslås på grund av att den skattefordran som föranleder begäran har bestridits av den skattskyldige.
5. Den anmodade parten har inte skyldighet att inhämta och lämna upplysningar som den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodande parten - om de begärda upplysningarna fanns inom denna parts jurisdiktion - inte kan inhämta enligt sin lagstiftning eller sedvanliga administrativa praxis.
6. Den anmodade parten får avslå en begäran om upplysningar, om upplysningarna begärs av den anmodande parten för tillämpning eller verkställighet av en bestämmelse i den anmodande partens skattelagstiftning, eller därmed sammanhängande krav, som under samma förhållanden diskriminerar en medborgare eller person med hemvist i den anmodade parten i förhållande till en medborgare eller person med hemvist i den anmodande parten.
Artikel 8
Sekretess
1. Alla upplysningar som lämnas och tas emot av de behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande parterna ska hållas hemliga och får endast yppas för personer eller myndigheter (däri inbegripet domstolar och förvaltningsorgan) som har befattning med de ändamål som anges i artikel 1 och får användas av dessa personer eller myndigheter endast för sådana ändamål, däri inbegripet handläggning av överklagande eller för att utöva tillsyn över nämnda verksamheter. För dessa ändamål får upplysningarna yppas vid offentlig domstolsförhandling eller i domstolsavgöranden.
2. Upplysningarna får inte yppas för annan person eller myndighet utan uttryckligt skriftligt medgivande från den behöriga myndigheten i den anmodade parten.
3. Upplysningar som lämnats till en anmodande part får inte yppas för annan jurisdiktion.
Artikel 9
Rättigheter
Inget i detta avtal påverkar de rättigheter som tillkommer personer enligt den anmodade partens lagstiftning eller administrativa praxis. Dessa rättigheter får dock inte tillämpas av den anmodade parten på ett sätt som otillbörligt hindrar eller fördröjer ett effektivt utbyte av upplysningar.
Artikel 10
Administrativa kostnader
1. Sedvanliga kostnader som uppkommer i samband med besvarandet av en begäran om upplysningar ska bäras av den anmodade parten. Sådana sedvanliga kostnader täcker normalt interna administrativa kostnader och mindre externa kostnader.
2. Alla andra kostnader som inte är sedvanliga kostnader anses vara extraordinära kostnader och ska bäras av den anmodande parten. Extraordinära kostnader omfattar, men är inte begränsade till, följande:
a) skäliga ersättningar till tredje part för utförandet av utredningsarbete,
b) skäliga ersättningar till tredje part för kopieringsarbete,
c) skäliga kostnader för att anlita experter, tolkar eller översättare,
d) skäliga kostnader för att överföra dokument till den anmodande parten,
e) skäliga processuella kostnader som den anmodade parten haft i samband med en specifik begäran om upplysningar, och
f) skäliga kostnader för att inhämta skriftliga vittnesberättelser och vittnesmål.
3. De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande parterna ska rådgöra med varandra i enskilda fall där det är sannolikt att de extraordinära kostnaderna kommer att överstiga 500 US-
dollar, i syfte att avgöra om den anmodande parten vill fullfölja begäran och bära kostnaderna för denna.
Artikel 11
Inga riktade motåtgärder
1. Så länge som detta avtal är i kraft och tillämpas är det de avtalsslutande parternas avsikt att inte tillämpa eller införa riktade motåtgärder som avser att motverka skadlig skattekonkurrens och som riktar sig mot personer med hemvist eller medborgarskap i någon av de avtalsslutande parterna. Om en avtalsslutande part emellertid har anledning att anta att den andra avtalsslutande parten infört sådana riktade motåtgärder ska de avtalsslutande parterna omedelbart inleda förhandlingar för att lösa frågan.
2. En riktad motåtgärd som avser att motverka skadlig skattekonkurrens åsyftar en åtgärd som tillämpas av en avtalsslutande part och som riktar sig mot personer med hemvist eller medborgarskap i den andra avtalsslutande parten och som motiveras med att denna andra avtalsslutande part inte medverkar till ett effektivt utbyte av information eller att denna part brister i transparens när det gäller dess lagstiftning, föreskrifter eller administrativa praxis.
Detsamma gäller om denna andra part inte tar ut någon skatt eller om bara en symbolisk skatt tas ut och detta sker samtidigt som något av de kriterier som nämns ovan föreligger.
3. Utan att begränsa den generella innebörden av uttrycket
"riktade motåtgärder" inbegriper uttrycket att vägra avdrag, avräkning, skattereduktion eller skattebefrielse, att ta ut skatt, avgift eller annan pålaga eller att ställa särskilda krav på dokumentationsskyldighet. Sådana åtgärder inbegriper varje åtgärd som direkt eller indirekt påverkar beskattningen. De inbegriper emellertid inte allmänna åtgärder som tillämpas generellt av en avtalsslutande part i förhållande till bland annat medlemsstater i OECD.
Artikel 12
Lagstiftning om införlivande
De avtalsslutande parterna ska (såvida så inte redan har skett) anta sådan lagstiftning som är nödvändig för att uppfylla och ge verkan åt villkoren i detta avtal.
Artikel 13
Språk
Begäran om handräckning och svar på sådan begäran ska upprättas på engelska.
Artikel 14
Förfarandet vid ömsesidig överenskommelse
1. När svårigheter eller tvivelsmål uppkommer mellan de avtalsslutande parterna i fråga om fullgörandet eller tolkningen av detta avtal ska de behöriga myndigheterna anstränga sig för att avgöra saken genom ömsesidig överenskommelse.
2. Utöver vad som framgår av punkt 1 i denna artikel, får parternas behöriga myndigheter ömsesidigt komma överens om förfarandena för tillämpningen av artiklarna 5, 6 och 10.
3. Vid tillämpningen av denna artikel kan parternas behöriga myndigheter träda i direkt förbindelse med varandra i syfte att nå en överenskommelse.
Artikel 15
Ikraftträdande
1. Vardera parten ska skriftligen underrätta den andra parten när de åtgärder vidtagits enligt respektive parts lagstiftning som krävs för att detta avtal ska träda i kraft.
2. Detta avtal ska träda i kraft den trettionde dagen efter den dag då den sista av dessa underrättelser tas emot och tillämpas:
a) i skattebrottsärenden, från dagen för ikraftträdandet, och
b) i alla andra ärenden som omfattas av artikel 1, för beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari det år som närmast följer efter dagen för ikraftträdandet av avtalet eller senare, eller - då något beskattningsår inte föreligger - för skatteanspråk som uppkommer den 1 januari det år som närmast följer efter dagen för ikraftträdandet av avtalet eller senare.
Artikel 16
Upphörande
1. Detta avtal förblir i kraft till dess det sägs upp av en avtalsslutande part.
2. Vardera avtalsslutande parten kan säga upp avtalet genom att på diplomatisk väg lämna skriftlig underrättelse härom till den andra avtalsslutande parten. I händelse av sådan uppsägning upphör avtalet att gälla den första dagen i den månad som följer närmast efter utgången av den sexmånadersperiod som följer efter den dag då underrättelse om uppsägning togs emot av den andra avtalsslutande parten.
3. I händelse av att avtalet sägs upp ska de avtalsslutande parterna vara fortsatt bundna av bestämmelserna i artikel 8 i fråga om upplysningar som erhållits med stöd av avtalet.
Till bekräftelse härav har undertecknade, därtill vederbörligen bemyndigade av respektive part, undertecknat detta avtal.
Som skedde i Köpenhamn den 18 maj 2009 i två exemplar på engelska språket.
För Konungariket Sveriges regering
Lars Grundberg
För Brittiska Jungfruöarnas regering
Danica Penn
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.