Title: Lag (1994:1617) om dubbelbeskattningsavtal mellan Sverige och Amerikas Förenta Stater
SFS Number: Svensk författningssamling 1994:1617
URL: https://www.riksdagen.se/sv/dokument-och-lagar/dokument/svensk-forfattningssamling/lag-19941617-om-dubbelbeskattningsavtal-mellan_sfs-1994-1617/
Source Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfst?bet=1994:1617
Amendment Register Link: http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/sfsr?bet=1994:1617
Ministry/Authority: Finansdepartementet S3
Issued: 1994-12-15
Metadata: {"Utfärdad": "1994-12-15", "Ändrad": "t.o.m. SFS 2011:1368"}

==================================================

Lag (1994:1617) om dubbelbeskattningsavtal mellan Sverige och Amerikas Förenta Stater
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.
SFS nr
:     
1994:1617
Departement/myndighet
:   
Finansdepartementet S3
Utfärdad
:   
1994-12-15
Ändrad
:   
t.o.m. SFS 2011:1368
Ändringsregister
:
SFSR (Regeringskansliet)
Källa
:
Fulltext (Regeringskansliet)
Innehåll:
Övergångsbestämmelser
1 §
Det avtal för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning och förhindrande av skatteflykt beträffande skatter på inkomst som Sverige och Amerikas förenta stater undertecknade den 1 september 1994, i den lydelse avtalet har genom det protokoll om ändring i avtalet som undertecknades den 30 september 2005, skall tillsammans med de skriftväxlingar som är fogade till avtalet och protokollet och som utgör en del av dessa, gälla som lag här i landet. Avtalets och skriftväxlingarnas innehåll framgår av bilaga till denna lag.
Lag (2005:1088)
.
2 §
Avtalets beskattningsregler skall tillämpas endast i den mån dessa medför inskränkning av den skattskyldighet i Sverige som annars skulle föreligga.
3 §
Har upphävts genom
lag (2011:1368)
.
4 §
Ärende, som enligt artikel 19 punkt 4 i avtalet skall avgöras av behörig myndighet i en avtalsslutande stat, skall på svensk sida handläggas av Skatteverket. Är sådant ärende av särskild betydelse eller annars av sådan beskaffenhet att det bör avgöras av regeringen, skall dock Skatteverket med eget yttrande överlämna ärendet till Finansdepartementet.
Skatteverkets beslut enligt denna paragraf får inte överklagas.
Lag (2003:710)
.
Övergångsbestämmelser
2005:1088
1. Denna lag träder i kraft den dag regeringen bestämmer.
2. Denna lag tillämpas i fråga om
a) skatt på inkomst som avses i artikel 20.4 i avtalet, på inkomst som uppburits den 1 januari 1996 eller senare,
b) källskatter, på belopp som betalas eller tillgodoförs den första i den kalendermånad som följer närmast efter den kalendermånad då lagen träder i kraft eller senare, och
c) andra skatter, för beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari det år som närmast följer efter det år då lagen träder i kraft eller senare.
Bilaga
CONVENTION BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF SWEDEN AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA FOR THE AVOIDANCE OF DOUBLE TAXATION AND THE PREVENTION OF FISCAL EVASION WITH RESPECT TO TAXES ON INCOME
The Government of Sweden and the Government of the United States of America, desiring to conclude a convention for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income, have agreed as follows:
Article 1
Personal scope
1. This Convention shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States, except as otherwise provided in the Convention.
2. The Convention shall not restrict in any manner any exclusion, exemption, deduction, credit, or other allowance now or hereafter accorded
a) by the laws of either Contracting State; or
b) by any other agreement between the Contracting States.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 b):
a) Notwithstanding any other agreement to which the Contracting States may be parties, a dispute concerning whether a measure is within the scope of this Convention shall be considered only by the competent authorities of the Contracting States, as defined in subparagraph 1 e) of Article 3 (General Definitions)
of this Convention, and the procedures under this Convention exclusively shall apply to the dispute.
b) Unless the competent authorities determine that a taxation measure is not within the scope of this Convention, the nondiscrimination obligations of this Convention exclusively shall apply with respect to that measure, except for such national treatment or mostfavored-nation obligations as may apply to trade in goods under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. No national treatment or mostfavorednation obligation under any other agreement shall apply with respect to that measure.
c) For the purpose of this paragraph, a "measure" is a law, regulation, rule, procedure, decision, administrative action, or any other form of measure.
4. Notwithstanding any provision of the Convention except paragraph 5, the United States may tax its residents [as determined under Article 4 (Residence)], and by reason of citizenship may tax its citizens, as if the Convention had not come into effect. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Convention, a former citizen or long-term resident of the United States may, for the period of ten years following the loss of such status, be taxed in accordance with the laws of the United States.
5. The provisions of paragraph 4 shall not affect
a) the benefits conferred by the United States under paragraph 2 of Article 9 (Associated enterprises), under paragraph 2 of Article 19 (Pensions and annuities), and under Articles 23
(Relief from double taxation), 24 (Nondiscrimination) and 25
(Mutual agreement procedure); and
b) the benefits conferred by the United States under Articles 20 (Government service), 21 (Students and trainees) and 28
(Diplomatic agents and consular officers) upon individuals who are neither citizens of, nor have immigrant status in, the United States.
6. In the case of an item of income, profit or gain derived by or through a person that is fiscally transparent under the laws of either Contracting State, such item shall be considered to be derived by a resident of a State to the extent that the item is treated for the purposes of the taxation law of such State as the income, profit, or gain of a resident.
Article 2
Taxes covered
1. The existing taxes to which this Convention shall apply are
a) in the United States: the Federal income taxes imposed by the Internal Revenue Code (but excluding the accumulated earnings tax, the personal holding company tax, and social security taxes), and the excise taxes imposed on insurance premiums paid to foreign insurers and with respect to private foundations. The Convention shall, however, apply to the excise taxes imposed on insurance premiums paid to foreign insurers only to the extent that the risks covered by such premiums are not reinsured with a person not entitled to the benefits of this or any other convention which exempts these taxes; and
b) in Sweden:
(i) the national income tax;
(ii) the withholding tax on dividends;
(iii) the income tax on nonresidents;
(iv) the income tax on nonresident artistes and athletes;
(v) for the purpose of paragraph 3 of this Article, the national capital tax;
(vi) the excise tax imposed on insurance premiums paid to foreign insurers; and
(vii) the municipal income tax.
2. The Convention skall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes which are imposed after the date of signature of the Convention in addition to, or in place of, the taxes referred to above. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall notify each other of any significant changes which have been made in their respective taxation laws and of any officially published material of substantial significance concerning the application of the Convention, including explanations, regulations, rulings, or judicial decisions.
3. The following persons shall be subject to the Swedish State capital tax only in respect of real property situated in Sweden and movable property attributable to a permanent establishment of such person in Sweden or to a fixed base available to such person in Sweden for the purpose of performing independent personal service;
a) a resident of the United States, as determined under Article 4 (Residence), who is a citizen of the United States but not a citizen of Sweden;
b) a resident of the United States, as determined under Article 4, whether or not a citizen of the United States, who has been such a resident for three successive years prior to the first taxable year for which the provisions of the Convention have effect, and for each taxable year thereafter;
c) a citizen of the United States, who is not a citizen of Sweden, who temporarily visits Sweden for a period not exceeding two years, and who is, or immediately prior to such visit was, a resident of the United States, as determined under Article 4;
d) an estate of a person described in subparagraph a), b) or c); or
e) a company that is a resident of the United States, as determined under Article 4.
Article 3
General definitions
1. For the purposes of this Convention, unless the context otherwise requires
a) the term "person" includes an individual, an estate, a trust, a partnership, a company, and any other body of persons;
b) the term "company" means any entity which is treated as a body corporate for income tax purposes;
c) the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and
"enterprise of the other Contracting State" mean respectively an enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the other Contracting State;
d) the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or aircraft, except where such transport is solely between places within a Contracting State;
e) the term "competent authority" means
(i) in the case of the United States, the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate; and
(ii) in the case of Sweden, the Minister of Finance, his authorized representative or the authority which is designated as a competent authority for the purposes of this Convention;
f) the term "United States" means the United States of America, but such term (i) does not include Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, or other United States possessions or territories, and (ii) includes (A) the territorial sea of the United States and (B) the seabed and subsoil of the submarine areas adjacent to the territorial sea, over which the United States of America exercises sovereign rights, in accordance with international law, for the purpose of exploration for and exploitation of the natural resources of such areas;
g) the term "Sweden" means the Kingdom of Sweden and, when used in a geographical sense, includes the national territory, the territorial sea as well as other maritime areas over which Sweden, in accordance with international law, exercises sovereign rights or jurisdiction.
2. As regards the application of the Convention by a Contracting State any term not defined therein shall, unless the context otherwise requires or the competent authorities agree to a common meaning pursuant to the provisions of Article 25 (Mutual agreement procedure), have the meaning which it has under the laws of that State concerning the taxes to which the Convention applies.
Article 4
Residence
1. a) For the purposes of this Convention, the term "resident of a Contracting State" means any person who, under the laws of that State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of management, place of incorporation, or any other criterion of a similar nature, and also includes that State and any political subdivision or local authority thereof.
This term, however, does not include any person who is liable to tax in that State in respect only of income from sources in that State or of profits attributable to a permanent establishment in that State.
b) A United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States is a resident of the United States, but only if such person has a substantial presence, permanent home, or habitual abode in the United States. If such person is also a resident of Sweden under this paragraph, such person will also be treated as a United States resident under this paragraph and such person's status shall be determined under paragraph 2.
c) The term "resident of a Contracting State" includes a legal person organized under the laws of that Contracting State and that is generally exempt from tax in that State and is established and maintained in that State either:
i) exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, artistic, cultural, or educational purposes; or
ii) to provide pensions or other similar retirement benefits pursuant to a plan.
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his status shall be determined as follows
a) he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him; if he has a permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State with which his personal and economic relations are closer (center of vital interests);
b) if the State in which he has his center of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he does not have a permanent home available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which he has an habitual abode;
c) if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State of which he is a citizen;
d) if he is a citizen of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the question by mutual agreement.
3. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 a company is a resident of both Contracting States, then if it is created under the laws of a Contracting State or a political subdivision thereof, it shall be deemed to be a resident only of that State.
4. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 a person other than an individual or a company is a resident of both Contracting States, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the question by mutual agreement.
Article 5
Permanent establishment
1. For the purposes of this Convention, the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business through which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
2. The term "permanent establishment" includes especially
a) a place of management;
b) a branch;
c) an office;
d) a factory;
e) a workshop; and
f) a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources.
3. A building site or construction or installation project constitutes a permanent establishment only if it lasts more than twelve months. The use of an installation or drilling rig or ship in a Contracting State to explore for or exploit natural resources constitutes a permanent establishment only if such use is for more than twelve months.
4. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed not to include
a) the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage, display or delivery of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise;
b) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storage, display, or delivery;
c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of processing by another enterprise;
d) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or of collecting information for the enterprise;
e) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any other activity of a preparatory or auxiliary character;
f) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in subparagraphs a) to e).
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person - other than an agent of an independent status to whom paragraph 6 applies - is acting on behalf of an enterprise and has and habitually exercises in a Contracting State an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the enterprise, that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in that State in respect of any activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, unless the activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 4 which, if exercised through a fixed place of business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the provisions of that paragraph.
6. An enterprise shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a Contracting State merely because it carries on business in that State through a broker, general commission agent or any other agent of an independent status, provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business.
7. The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a permanent establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.
Article 6
Income from real property
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from real property (including income from agriculture or forestry)
situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. The term "real property" shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracting State in which the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to real property, livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting landed property apply, buildings, usufruct of real property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources; ships, boats and aircraft shall not be regarded as real property.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form of real property.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income from real property of an enterprise and to income from real property used for the performance of independent personal services.
Article 7
Business profits
1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries on business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of them as is attributable to that permanent establishment.
2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracting State be attributed to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions.
3. In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions expenses which are incurred for the purposes of the permanent establishment, including a reasonable allocation of executive and general administrative expenses, research and development expenses, interest, and other expenses incurred for the purposes of the enterprise as a whole (or the part thereof which includes the permanent establishment), whether incurred in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere.
4. Profits shall not be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent establishment of goods or merchandise for the enterprise.
5. For the purposes of this Convention, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall include only the profits derived from the assets or activities of the permanent establishment and shall be determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
6. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separately in other Articles of the Convention, then the provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.
7. The term "profits" as used in this Article means income derived from any trade or business whether carried on by an individual, company or any other person, or group of persons, including the rental of tangible movable property.
8. a) The United States tax on insurance premiums paid to foreign insurers shall not be imposed on insurance and reinsurance premiums which are the receipts of a business of insurance carried on by a resident of Sweden whether or not that business is carried on through a permanent establishment in the United States (but only to the extent that the relevant risk is not reinsured, directly or indirectly, with a person not entitled to relief from such tax).
b) The Swedish tax on insurance premiums paid to foreign insurers shall not be imposed on insurance premiums which are the receipts of a business of insurance carried on by a resident of the United States whether or not that business is carried on through a permanent establishment in Sweden.
9. Notwithstanding paragraph 6 of this Article, for the implementation of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, paragraph 3 of Article 13 (Gains), Article 14 (Independent personal services) and Article 22 (Other income) any income, gain, or expense attributable to a permanent establishment or a fixed base during its existence is taxable or deductible in the Contracting State where such a permanent establishment or fixed base is situated even if the payments are deferred until such permanent establishment or fixed base has ceased to exist.
Article 8
Shipping and air transport
1. Profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic shall be taxable only in that State.
2. For the purposes of this Article, profits from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic include profits derived from the rental of ships or aircraft if such rental profits are incidental to other profits described in paragraph 1.
3. Profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State from the use, maintenance, or rental of containers (including trailers, barges, and related equipment for the transport of containers)
used in international traffic shall be taxable only in that State.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to profits from participation in a pool, a joint business, or an international operating agency. With respect to profits derived by the air transport consortium Scandinavian Airlines System
(SAS) the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall apply, but only to such part of the profits as corresponds to the participation held in that consortium by AB Aerotransport
(ABA), the Swedish partner of Scandinavian Airlines System
(SAS).
Article 9
Associated enterprises
1. Where
a) an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of the other Contracting State; or
b) the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control, or capital of an enterprise of a Contracting State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State,
and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or financial relations which differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but for those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises, but by reason of those conditions have not so accrued, may be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.
2. Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of that State, and taxes accordingly, profits on which an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State, and the profits so included are profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions made between the two enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other State shall make an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In determining such adjustment, due regard shall be paid to the other provisions of this Convention and the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall if necessary consult each other.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not limit any provisions of the law of either Contracting State which permit the distribution, apportionment, or allocation of income, deductions, credits, or allowances between persons, whether or not residents of a Contracting State, owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the same interests when necessary in order to prevent evasion of taxes or clearly to reflect the income of any of such persons.
Article 10
Dividends
1. Dividends paid by a company that is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a resident, and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the dividends is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed:
a) 5 percent of the gross amount of the dividends if the beneficial owner is a company that owns shares representing at least 10 percent of the voting power in the company paying the dividends;
b) 15 percent of the gross amount of the dividends in all other cases.
This paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, such dividends shall not be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a resident if the beneficial owner is:
a) a company that is a resident of the other Contracting State that has owned, directly or indirectly through one or more residents of either Contracting State, shares representing 80 percent or more of the voting power in the company paying the dividends for a 12-month period ending on the date on which entitlement to the dividends is determined, and:
i) satisfies the conditions of clause i) or ii) of subparagraph c) of paragraph 2 of Article 17 (Limitation on benefits);
ii) satisfies the conditions of clauses i) and ii) of subparagraph e) of paragraph 2 of Article 17, provided that the company satisfies the conditions described in paragraph 4 of that Article with respect to the dividends;
iii) is entitled to benefits with respect to the dividends under paragraph 3 of Article 17; or
iv) has received a determination pursuant to paragraph 6 of Article 17 with respect to this paragraph; or
b) a pension fund that is a resident of the other Contracting State, provided that:
i) such dividends are not derived from the carrying on of a trade or business by the pension fund or through an associated enterprise; and
ii) such pension fund does not sell or make a contract to sell the holding from which such dividend is derived within two months of the date such pension fund acquired such holding.
For the purposes of determining whether a company is entitled to benefits with respect to the dividends under paragraph 3 of Article 17, within the meaning of clause iii) of subparagraph a) of this paragraph, the determination of whether a person owning shares, directly or indirectly, in the company claiming the benefits of this Convention is an equivalent beneficiary shall be made by treating such person as holding the same voting power in the company paying the dividends as the company claiming the benefits holds in such company.
4. a) Subparagraph a) of paragraph 2 and subparagraph a) of paragraph 3 shall not apply in the case of dividends paid by a U.S. Regulated Investment Company (RIC) or a Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT). In the case of dividends paid by a RIC, subparagraph b) of paragraph 2 and subparagraph b) of paragraph 3 shall apply. In the case of dividends paid by a REIT, subparagraph b) of paragraph 2 and subparagraph b) of paragraph 3 shall apply only if:
i) the beneficial owner of the dividends is an individual or pension fund, in either case holding an interest of not more than 10 percent in the REIT;
ii) the dividends are paid with respect to a class of shares that is publicly traded and the beneficial owner of the dividends is a person holding an interest of not more than 5 percent of any class of the REIT's shares; or
iii) the beneficial owner of the dividends is a person holding an interest of not more than 10 percent in the REIT and the REIT is diversified.
b) For purposes of this paragraph, a REIT shall be
"diversified" if the value of no single interest in real property exceeds 10 percent of its total interests in real property. For the purposes of this provision, foreclosure property shall not be considered an interest in real property.
Where a REIT holds an interest in a partnership, it shall be treated as owning directly a proportion of the partnership's interests in real property corresponding to its interest in the partnership.
5. The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from shares or other rights, not being debt-claims, participating in profits, as well as income from other corporate rights that is subjected to the same taxation treatment as income from shares by the laws of the State of which the company making the distribution is a resident, and income from arrangements, including debt obligations, carrying the right to participate in profits to the extent so characterized under the laws of the Contracting State in which the income arises, as well as, in the case of the United States, contingent interest of a type that would not qualify as portfolio interest.
6. The provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State, of which the company paying the dividends is a resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the dividends are attributable to such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case, the provisions of Article 7 (Business profits) or Article 14
(Independent personal services), as the case may be, shall apply.
7. A Contracting State may not impose any tax on dividends paid by a company which is not a resident of that State, except insofar as:
a) the dividends are paid to a resident of that State; or
b) the dividends are attributable to a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that State.
8. A religious, scientific, literary, educational, or charitable organization that is resident in Sweden and that has received substantially all of its support from persons other than citizens or residents of the United States shall be exempt in the United States from the United States excise taxes imposed with respect to private foundations.
9. A company that is a resident of a Contracting State and that has a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State, or that is subject to tax in that other Contracting State on items of income that may be taxed in that other State under Article 6 (Income from real property) or under paragraph 1 of Article 13 (Gains), may be subject in that other Contracting State to a tax in addition to the tax allowable under the other provisions of this Convention. Such tax, however, may:
a) in the case of the United States be imposed only on:
i) the portion of the business profits of the company attributable to the permanent establishment, and
ii) the portion of the income referred to in the preceding sentence that is subject to tax under Article 6 or paragraph 1 of Article 13,
that represents the "dividend equivalent amount" of those profits and income; the term "dividend equivalent amount"
shall, for the purposes of this subparagraph, have the meaning that it has under the law of the United States as it may be amended from time to time without changing the general principle thereof; and
b) in the case of Sweden be imposed only on that portion of the income described in subparagraph a) that is comparable to the amount that would be distributed as a dividend by a locally incorporated subsidiary.
10. The tax referred to in subparagraphs a) and b) of paragraph 9 shall not be imposed at a rate exceeding the rate specified in paragraph 2 a). In any case, it shall not be imposed on a company that:
a) satisfies the conditions of clause i) or ii) of subparagraph c) of paragraph 2 of Article 17;
b) satisfies the conditions of clauses i) and ii) of subparagraph e) of paragraph 2 of Article 17, provided that the company satisfies the conditions described in paragraph 4 of that Article with respect to an item of income, profit, or gain described in paragraph 9;
c) is entitled under paragraph 3 of Article 17 to benefits with respect to an item of income, profit, or gain described in paragraph 9; or
d) has received a determination pursuant to paragraph 6 of Article 17 with respect to this paragraph.
11. The term "pension fund" as used in this Article means any person that:
a) is organized under the laws of a Contracting State;
b) is established and maintained in that Contracting State primarily to administer or provide pensions or other similar remuneration, including social security payments; and
c) is exempt from tax in that Contracting State with respect to the activities described in subparagraph b).
Article 11
Interest
1. Interest arising in a Contracting State which is derived and beneficially owned by a resident of the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in that other State.
2. The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by mortgage, and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits, and in particular, income from government securities, and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums or prizes attaching to such securities, bonds, or debentures and including an excess inclusion with respect to a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit.
Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purposes of the Convention. However, the term
"interest" does not include income dealt with in Article 10
(Dividends).
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State, in which the interest arises, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the interest is attributable to such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 (Business profits) or Article 14 (Independent personal services), as the case may be, shall apply.
4. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is that State itself or a political subdivision, local authority, or resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base and such interest is borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such interest shall be deemed to arise in the State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
5. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt-
claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of the Convention.
6. A Contracting State may not impose any tax on interest paid by a resident of the other Contracting State, except insofar as
a) the interest is paid to a resident of the first-mentioned State;
b) the interest is attributable to a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in the first-mentioned State; or
c) the interest arises in the first-mentioned State and is not paid to a resident of the other State.
7. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article an excess inclusion with respect to a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit may be taxed in the Contracting State where the excess inclusion arises according to the laws of that State.
Article 12
Royalties
1. Royalties arising in a Contracting State which are derived and beneficially owned by a resident of the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in that other State.
2. The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of, or the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work (including motion pictures and works on film, tape or other means of reproduction used for radio or television broadcasting), any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or other like right or property, or for information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience. The term "royalties" also includes gains derived from the alienation of any such right or property which are contingent on the productivity, use, or disposition thereof.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State, in which the royalties arise, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the royalties are attributable to such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 (Business profits) or Article 14 (Independent personal services), as the case may be, shall apply.
4. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and some other person, the amount of the royalties, having regard to the use, right, or information for which they are paid, exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-
mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Convention.
Article 13
Gains
1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the disposition of real property situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. For purposes of paragraph 1
a) the term "real property situated in the other Contracting State", where the United States is the other Contracting State, includes real property referred to in Article 6 (Income from real property) which is situated in the United States, a United States real property interest, and an interest in a partnership, trust or estate, to the extent attributable to a United States real property interest situated in the United States;
b) the term "real property situated in the other Contracting State", where Sweden is the other Contracting State, includes property that is real property under the law of Sweden situated in Sweden, and, without limiting the foregoing, shall include
(i) real property referred to in Article 6 which is situated in Sweden; and
(ii) shares or similar rights in a company the assets of which consist, directly or indirectly, mainly of such real property.
3. Gains from the disposition of movable property which are attributable to a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State, or which are attributable to a fixed base available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing independent personal services, and gains from the disposition of such a permanent establishment (alone or with the whole enterprise) or such a fixed base, may be taxed in that other State.
4. Gains derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the disposition of ships or aircraft operated by the enterprise in international traffic or movable property attributable to the operation of such ships or aircraft shall be taxable only in that State. The provisions of this paragraph shall apply to gains derived by the air transport consortium Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS), but only to such part of the gains as corresponds to the participation held in that consortium by AB Aerotransport (ABA), the Swedish partner of Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS).
Gains derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the disposition of containers used in international traffic and movable property attributable to the operation of such containers (including trailers, barges, and related equipment for the transport of containers) shall be taxable only in that State.
5. Gains described in Article 12 (Royalties) shall be taxable only in accordance with the provisions of Article 12.
6. Except as provided in paragraph 7, gains from the disposition of any property other than property referred to in paragraphs 1 through 5 shall be taxable only in the Contracting State of which the person disposing of the property is resident.
7. In the case of an individual who had been a resident of Sweden and who has become a resident of the United States, the provisions of paragraph 6 shall not affect the right of Sweden to tax gains from the disposition of any property derived by such individual at any time during the ten years following the date on which the individual has ceased to be a resident of Sweden.
Article 14
Independent personal services
Income derived by an individual who is a resident of a Contracting State from the performance of personal services in an independent capacity shall be taxable only in that State.
However, such income may also be taxed in the other Contracting State to the extent that such services are or were performed in that other State and the income is attributable to a fixed base regularly available to the individual in that other State for the purpose of performing his activities.
Article 15
Dependent personal services
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 16 (Directors' fees), 19 (Pensions and annuities) and 20 (Government service), salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment is exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is derived therefrom may be taxed in that other State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State if
a) the recipient is present in the other State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any consecutive twelve month period;
b) the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of the other State; and
c) the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base which the employer has in the other State.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment as a member of the regular complement of a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic, including an aircraft operated in international traffic by the air transport consortium Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS), shall be taxable only in that State, except that remuneration derived in respect of an employment as a member of the regular complement of a ship operated in international traffic by a Swedish enterprise may be taxed in Sweden.
Article 16
Directors' fees
Directors' fees derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member of the board of directors of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State. However, such fees shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned Contracting State to the extent such fees are derived in respect of services performed in that State.
Article 17
Limitation on benefits
1. A resident of a Contracting State shall be entitled to benefits otherwise accorded to residents of a Contracting State by this Convention only to the extent provided in this Article.
2. A resident of a Contracting State shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Convention if the resident is:
a) an individual;
b) a Contracting State or any political subdivision or local authority thereof;
c) a company, if:
i) its principal class of shares (and any disproportionate class of shares) is regularly traded on one or more recognized stock exchanges, and either
A) its principal class of shares is primarily traded on a recognized stock exchange located in the Contracting State of which the company is a resident (or, in the case of a company resident in Sweden, on a recognized stock exchange located within the European Union or in any other European Economic Area state or in Switzerland or, in the case of a company resident in the United States, on a recognized stock exchange located in another state that is a party to the North American Free Trade Agreement); or
B) the company's primary place of management and control is in the Contracting State of which it is a resident; or
ii) at least 50 percent of the aggregate voting power and value of the shares (and at least 50 percent of any disproportionate class of shares) in the company are owned directly or indirectly by five or fewer companies entitled to benefits under clause i) of this subparagraph, provided that, in the case of indirect ownership, each intermediate owner is a resident of either Contracting State;
d) a person described in subparagraph c) of paragraph 1 of Article 4 (Residence), provided that, in the case of a person described in clause ii) of that subparagraph, either:
(i) more than 50 percent of the person's beneficiaries, members or participants are individuals resident in either Contracting State; or
(ii) the organization sponsoring such person is entitled to the benefits of this Convention pursuant to this Article; or
e) a person other than an individual, if:
i) on at least half the days of the taxable year at least 50 percent of each class of shares or other beneficial interests in the person is owned, directly or indirectly, by residents of the Contracting State of which that person is a resident that are entitled to the benefits of this Convention under subparagraph a), subparagraph b), clause i) of subparagraph c), or subparagraph d) of this paragraph; and
ii) less than 50 percent of the person's gross income for the taxable year, as determined in the person's State of residence, is paid or accrued, directly or indirectly, to persons who are not residents of either Contracting State entitled to the benefits of this Convention under subparagraph a), subparagraph b), clause i) of subparagraph c), or subparagraph d) of this paragraph in the form of payments that are deductible for purposes of the taxes covered by this Convention in the person's State of residence (but not including arm's length payments in the ordinary course of business for services or tangible property and payments in respect of financial obligations to a bank that is not related to the payor).
3. A company that is a resident of a Contracting State shall also be entitled to the benefits of the Convention if:
a) at least 95 percent of the aggregate voting power and value of its shares (and at least 50 percent of any disproportionate class of shares) is owned, directly or indirectly, by seven or fewer persons that are equivalent beneficiaries; and
b) less than 50 percent of the company's gross income, as determined in the company's State of residence, for the taxable year is paid or accrued, directly or indirectly, to persons who are not equivalent beneficiaries, in the form of payments (but not including arm's length payments in the ordinary course of business for services or tangible property and payments in respect of financial obligations to a bank that is not related to the payor), that are deductible for the purposes of the taxes covered by this Convention in the company's State of residence.
4. a) A resident of a Contracting State will be entitled to benefits of the Convention with respect to an item of income derived from the other Contracting State, regardless of whether the resident is entitled to benefits under paragraph 2 or 3, if the resident is engaged in the active conduct of a trade or business in the first-mentioned State (other than the business of making or managing investments for the resident's own account, unless these activities are banking, insurance, or securities activities carried on by a bank, insurance company or registered securities dealer), and the income derived from the other Contracting State is derived in connection with, or is incidental to, that trade or business.
b) If a resident of a Contracting State or any of its associated enterprises carries on a trade or business activity in the other Contracting State which gives rise to an item of income, subparagraph a) of this paragraph shall apply to such item only if the trade or business activity in the first-
mentioned State is substantial in relation to the trade or business activity in the other State. Whether a trade or business activity is substantial for purposes of this paragraph will be determined based on all the facts and circumstances.
c) In determining whether a person is "engaged in the active conduct of a trade or business" in a Contracting State under subparagraph a) of this paragraph, activities conducted by persons connected to such person shall be deemed to be conducted by such person. A person shall be connected to another if one possesses at least 50 percent of the beneficial interest in the other (or, in the case of a company, at least 50 percent of the aggregate voting power and at least 50 percent of the aggregate value of the shares in the company or of the beneficial equity interest in the company) or another person possesses, directly or indirectly, at least 50 percent of the beneficial interest (or, in the case of a company, at least 50 percent of the aggregate voting power and at least 50 percent of the aggregate value of the shares in the company or of the beneficial equity interest in the company) in each person. In any case, a person shall be considered to be connected to another if, based on all the relevant facts and circumstances, one has control of the other or both are under the control of the same person or persons.
5. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, where an enterprise of Sweden derives insurance premiums, interest, or royalties from the United States, and, pursuant to a tax convention between Sweden and a third state, the income consisting of such premiums, interest, or royalties is exempt from taxation in Sweden because it is attributable to a permanent establishment which that enterprise has in that third state, the tax benefits that would otherwise apply under the other provisions of the Convention will not apply to such income if the tax that is actually paid with respect to such income in the third state is less than 60 percent of the tax that would have been payable in Sweden if the income were earned in Sweden by the enterprise and were not attributable to the permanent establishment in the third state. Any interest or royalties to which the provisions of this paragraph apply may be taxed in the United States at a rate that shall not exceed 15 percent of the gross amount thereof. Any insurance premiums to which the provisions of this paragraph apply will be subject to tax under the provisions of the domestic law of the United States, notwithstanding any other provision of the Convention.
The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if:
a) in the case of interest, as defined in Article 11
(Interest), the income from the United States is derived in connection with, or is incidental to, the active conduct of a trade or business carried on by the permanent establishment in the third state (other than the business of making, managing, or simply holding investments for the enterprise's own account, unless these activities are banking, or securities activities carried on by a bank, or registered securities dealer); or
b) in the case of royalties, as defined in Article 12
(Royalties), the royalties are received as compensation for the use of, or the right to use, intangible property produced or developed by the permanent establishment itself.
6. A resident of a Contracting State that is not entitled to benefits pursuant to the preceding paragraphs of this Article shall, nevertheless, be granted benefits of the Convention if the competent authority of the other Contracting State determines that the establishment, acquisition, or maintenance of such person and the conduct of its operations did not have as one of its principal purposes the obtaining of benefits under the Convention. The competent authority of the other Contracting State shall consult with the competent authority of the first-mentioned State before denying the benefits of the Convention under this paragraph.
7. For the purposes of this Article:
a) the term "principal class of shares" means the ordinary or common shares of the company, provided that such class of shares represents the majority of the voting power and value of the company. If no single class of ordinary or common shares represents the majority of the aggregate voting power and value of the company, the "principal class of shares" are those classes that in the aggregate represent a majority of the aggregate voting power and value of the company;
b) the term "disproportionate class of shares" means any class of shares of a company resident in a Contracting State that entitles the shareholder to disproportionately higher participation, through dividends, redemption payments, or otherwise, in the earnings generated in the other Contracting State by particular assets or activities of the company when compared to its participation in overall assets or activities of such company;
c) the term "shares" shall include depository receipts thereof;
d) the term "recognized stock exchange" means:
i) the NASDAQ System owned by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and any stock exchange registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as a national securities exchange under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
ii) the Stockholm Stock Exchange (Stockholmsbörsen), the Nordic Growth Market, and any other stock exchange subject to regulation by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority;
iii) the Irish Stock Exchange and the stock exchanges of Amsterdam, Brussels, Copenhagen, Frankfurt, Hamburg, Helsinki, London, Madrid, Milan, Oslo, Paris, Reykjavik, Riga, Tallinn, Toronto, Vienna, Vilnius and Zurich; and
iv) any other stock exchanges agreed upon by the competent authorities of the Contracting States;
e) a class of shares is considered to be regularly traded on one or more recognized stock exchanges in a taxable year if the aggregate number of shares of that class traded on such stock exchange or exchanges during the preceding taxable year is at least 6 percent of the average number of shares outstanding in that class during that preceding taxable year;
f) a company's primary place of management and control will be in the Contracting State of which it is a resident only if executive officers and senior management employees exercise day-to-day responsibility for more of the strategic, financial, and operational policy decision making for the company
(including its direct and indirect subsidiaries) in that State than in any other state, and the staffs conduct more of the day-to-day activities necessary for preparing and making those decisions in that State than in any other state;
g) the term "equivalent beneficiary" means a resident of a member state of the European Union or of any other European Economic Area state or of a party to the North American Free Trade Agreement, or of Switzerland, but only if that resident:
i) A) would be entitled to all the benefits of a comprehensive tax convention between any member state of the European Union or any other European Economic Area state or any party to the North American Free Trade Agreement, or Switzerland, and the State from which the benefits of this Convention are claimed under provisions analogous to subparagraph a), subparagraph b), clause i) of subparagraph c) or subparagraph d) of paragraph 2, provided that if such convention does not contain a comprehensive limitation on benefits provision, the resident would be entitled to the benefits of this Convention by reason of subparagraph a), subparagraph b), clause i) of subparagraph c), or subparagraph d) of paragraph 2 if such person were a resident of one of the Contracting States under Article 4
(Residence); and
B) with respect to insurance premiums and to income referred to in Article 10 (Dividends), 11 (Interest), or 12 (Royalties), would be entitled under such convention to a rate of tax with respect to the item of income for which benefits are being claimed under this Convention that is at least as low as the rate applicable under this Convention; or
ii) is a resident of a Contracting State that is entitled to the benefits of this Convention by reason of subparagraph a), subparagraph b), clause i) of subparagraph c), or subparagraph d) of paragraph 2;
h) with respect to dividends, interest, or royalties arising in Sweden and beneficially owned by a company that is a resident of the United States, a company that is a resident of a member state of the European Union will be treated as satisfying the requirements of subparagraph g) i) B) for purposes of determining whether such United States resident is entitled to benefits under this paragraph if a payment of dividends, interest, or royalties arising in Sweden and paid directly to such resident of a member state of the European Union would have been exempt from tax pursuant to any directive of the European Union, notwithstanding that the tax convention between Sweden and that other member state of the European Union would provide for a higher rate of tax with respect to such payment than the rate of tax applicable to such United States company under Article 10, 11, or 12.
Article 18
Artistes and athletes
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 14 (Independent personal services) and 15 (Dependent personal services), income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an entertainer, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio, or television artiste, or a musician, or as an athlete, from his personal activities as such exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State, except where the amount of the gross receipts derived by such entertainer or athlete, including expenses reimbursed to him or borne on his behalf, from such activities does not exceed six thousand United States dollars (6,000 $) or its equivalent in Swedish kronor for any 12 month period.
2. Where income in respect of activities exercised by an entertainer or an athlete in his capacity as such accrues not to the entertainer or athlete but to another person, that income of that other person may, notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 7 (Business profits) and 14, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the entertainer or athlete are exercised, unless it is established that neither the entertainer or athlete nor persons related thereto participate directly or indirectly in any profits of that other person in any manner, including the receipt of deferred remuneration, bonuses, fees, dividends, partnership distributions or other distributions.
Article 19
Pensions and annuities
1. Subject to the provisions of Article 20 (Government service)
and of paragraph 2 of this Article, pensions and other similar remuneration in consideration of past employment and annuities derived and beneficially owned by a resident of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that Contracting State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 20, pensions (including the Swedish "allmän tilläggspension") and other benefits paid out under provisions of the social security or similar legislation of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State or a citizen of the United States shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State.
3. The term "annuities" as used in this Article means a stated sum paid periodically at stated times during life or during a specified or ascertainable number of years, under an obligation to make the payments in return for adequate and full consideration (other than services rendered or to be rendered).
4. a) In determining the taxable income of an individual who renders personal services and who is a resident of a Contracting State but not a national of that State, contributions paid by, or on behalf of, such individual to a pension or other retirement arrangement that is established and maintained and recognized for tax purposes in the other Contracting State shall be treated in the same way for tax purposes in the first-mentioned State as a contribution paid to a pension or other retirement arrangement that is established and maintained and recognized for tax purposes in that first-
mentioned State, provided that:
(i) contributions were paid by, or on behalf of, such individual to such arrangement before he became a resident of the first-mentioned State; and
(ii) the competent authority of the first-mentioned State agrees that the pension or other retirement arrangement generally corresponds to a pension or other retirement arrangement recognized for tax purposes by that State.
b) A pension or other retirement arrangement is recognized for tax purposes in a State if the contributions to the arrangement would qualify for tax relief in that State.
Article 20
Government service
1. a) Remuneration, other than a pension, paid by a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or authority shall be taxable only in that State.
b) However, such remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the services are rendered in that State and the individual is a resident of that State who
(i) is a citizen of that State; or
(ii) did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
2. a) Any pension paid by, or out of funds created by, a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or authority shall be taxable only in that State.
b) However, such pension shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the individual is a resident of, and a citizen of, that State.
3. The provisions of Articles 14 (Independent personal services), 15 (Dependent personal services), 16 (Directors'
fees), 18 (Artistes and athletes) and 19 (Pensions and annuities) shall apply to remuneration and pensions in respect of services rendered in connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority thereof.
4. Notwithstanding paragraph 2, Sweden shall not tax a pension, paid by the U.S. Government to Swedish citizens and residents
(and those beneficiaries entitled to survivors benefits), if the relevant individual was hired prior to 1978 by the U.S.
Government to work for the United States embassy in Stockholm or the United States consulate general in Gothenburg and was covered under the United States Civil Service Retirement pension plan.
Article 21
Students and trainees
Payments received for the purpose of maintenance, education, or training by a student, apprentice, or business trainee who is or was immediately before visiting a Contracting State a resident of the other Contracting State and who is present in the first-mentioned State for the purpose of his fulltime education or training shall not be taxed in that State, provided that such payments arise from sources outside that State.
Article 22
Other income
1. Items of income of a resident of a Contracting State, wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this Convention shall be taxable only in that State.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income, other than income from real property as defined in paragraph 2 of Article 6 (Income from real property), if the beneficial owner of the income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the income is attributable to such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 (Business profits) or Article 14
(Independent personal services), as the case may be, shall apply.
Article 23
Relief from double taxation
1. In accordance with the provisions and subject to the limitations of the law of the United States (as it may be amended from time to time without changing the general principle hereof), the United States shall allow to a resident or citizen of the United States as a credit against the United States tax on income
a) the income tax paid to Sweden by or on behalf of such citizen or resident; and
b) in the case of a United States company owning at least 10 percent of the voting stock of a company which is a resident of Sweden and from which the United States company receives dividends, the income tax paid to Sweden by or on behalf of the distributing company with respect to the profits out of which the dividends are paid.
For the purposes of this paragraph and paragraphs 3 and 4, the taxes referred to in paragraphs 1 b) and 2 of Article 2 (Taxes covered) shall be considered income taxes except for the taxes referred to in paragraphs 1 b) v) and vi).
2. a) Where a resident of Sweden derives income which may be taxed in the United States in accordance with the provisions of this Convention [except when income is taxed only in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Article 1 (Personal scope)], Sweden shall allow - subject to the provisions of the law of Sweden (as it may be amended from time to time without changing the general principle hereof) - as a deduction from Swedish tax on the income of that resident an amount equal to the income tax paid in the United States.
The provisions of this subparagraph shall apply equally to the computation of tax on income of an individual resident of the United States from gains taxed in Sweden in accordance with paragraph 7 of Article 13 (Gains).
b) Where a resident of Sweden derives income which shall be taxable only in the United States in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19 (Pensions and annuities) and Article 20 (Government service) Sweden may, when determining the graduated rate of Swedish tax, take into account the income which shall be taxable only in the United States.
c) Dividends paid by a company being a resident of the United States to a company which is a resident of Sweden shall be exempt from Swedish tax to the extent that the dividends would have been exempt under Swedish law if both companies had been Swedish companies. This provision shall not apply unless the profits out of which the dividends are paid have been subjected to the normal corporate tax in the United States.
3. Where a United States citizen or former citizen or former long-term resident is a resident of Sweden, the following rules shall apply
a) Sweden shall allow, subject to the provisions of the law of Sweden (as it may be amended from time to time without changing the general principle thereof), as a deduction from Swedish tax the income tax paid to the United States in respect of profits, income or gains which arise in the United States, except that such deduction shall not exceed the amount of the tax that would be paid to the United States according to this Convention if the resident were not a United States citizen or former citizen or former long-term resident;
b) for the purpose of computing the United States tax, the United States shall allow, subject to the limitations of the law of the United States (as it may be amended from time to time without changing the general principle hereof), as a credit against United States income tax the income tax paid or accrued to Sweden after the deduction referred to in subparagraph a), provided that the credit so allowed shall not reduce that portion of the United States tax that is deductible from Swedish tax in accordance with subparagraph a); and
c) for the purposes of subparagraph b) profits, income or gains shall be deemed to arise in Sweden to the extent necessary to avoid double taxation of such income.
4. For the purposes of allowing relief from double taxation pursuant to this Article and subject to such source rules in the domestic laws of the Contracting States as apply for the purpose of limiting the foreign tax credit, income shall be deemed to arise exclusively as follows
a) income derived by a resident of a Contracting State shall be deemed to arise in the other Contracting State if it may be taxed in that other State in accordance with this Convention unless it is taxable in that other State solely by reason of
(i) citizenship or former citizenship or former long-term residency in accordance with paragraph 4 of Article 1 (Personal scope) or (ii) former residency in accordance with paragraph 7 of Article 13;
b) income derived by a resident of a Contracting State which may not be taxed in the other Contracting State in accordance with the Convention shall be deemed to arise in the first-
mentioned State.
The rules of this paragraph shall not apply in determining credits against United States tax for foreign taxes other than the taxes referred to in paragraphs 1 b) and 2 of Article 2.
Article 24
Non-discrimination
1. A citizen of a Contracting State or a legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to which a citizen of that other State or a legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in that other State in the same circumstances is or may be subjected.
This provision shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1 (Personal scope), also apply to persons who are not residents of one or both of the Contracting States. However, for the purposes of United States tax, a United States citizen who is not a resident of the United States and a Swedish citizen who is not a resident of the United States are not in the same circumstances.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State shall not be less favorably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State carrying on the same activities. This provision shall not be construed as obliging a Contracting State to grant to residents of the other Contracting State any personal allowances, reliefs, and reductions for taxation purposes on account of civil status or family responsibilities which it grants to its own residents.
3. Except where the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 9
(Associated enterprises), paragraph 5 of Article 11 (Interest), or paragraph 4 of Article 12 (Royalties) apply, interest, royalties, and other disbursements paid by a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State shall, for the purposes of determining the taxable profits of the first-mentioned resident, be deductible under the same conditions as if they had been paid to a resident of the first-
mentioned State. Similarly, any debts of a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State shall, for the purposes of determining the taxable capital of the first-mentioned resident, be deductible under the same conditions as if they had been contracted to a resident of the first-mentioned State.
4. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned State to any taxation or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.
5. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as preventing imposition of a tax described in paragraph 9 of Article 10
(Dividends).
6. The provisions of this Article shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 2 (Taxes covered), apply to taxes of every kind and description imposed by a Contracting State or a political subdivision or local authority thereof.
Article 25
Mutual agreement procedure
1. Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, he may, irrespective of the remedies provided by the domestic law of those States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he is a resident or citizen.
2. The competent authority shall endeavor, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arrive at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other Contracting State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Convention. Any agreement reached shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits or other procedural limitations in the domestic law of the Contracting States.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavor to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of the Convention. In particular the competent authorities of the Contracting States may agree on
a) the attribution of income, deductions, credits, or allowances of an enterprise of a Contracting State to its permanent establishment situated in the other Contracting State;
b) the allocation of income, deductions, credits, or allowances between persons;
c) the characterization of particular items of income;
d) the application of source rules with respect to particular items of income; and
e) a common meaning of a term.
They may also consult together for the elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in the Convention.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purpose of reaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs.
Article 26
Exchange of information
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information as is necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Convention or of the domestic laws of the Contracting States concerning taxes covered by the Convention insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to the Convention. The exchange of information is not restricted by Article 1 (Personal scope). Any information received by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner as information obtained under the domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities
(including courts and administrative bodies) involved in the assessment, collection, or administration of, the enforcement or prosecution in respect of, or the determination of appeals in relation to, the taxes covered by the Convention. Such persons or authorities shall use the information only for such purposes. They may disclose the information in public court proceedings or in judicial decisions.
2. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 1 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation
a) to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the other Contracting State;
b) to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration of that or of the other Contracting State;
c) to supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial, or professional secret or trade process, or information the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy (ordre public).
3. If information is requested by a Contracting State in accordance with this Article, the other Contracting State shall obtain the information to which the request relates in the same manner and to the same extent as if the tax of the first-
mentioned State were the tax of that other State and were being imposed by that other State. If specifically requested by the competent authority of a Contracting State, the competent authority of the other Contracting State shall provide information under this Article in the form of depositions of witnesses and authenticated copies of unedited original documents (including books, papers, statements, records, accounts, and writings), to the same extent such depositions and documents can be obtained under the laws and administrative practices of that other State with respect to its own taxes.
4. The competent authorities may by mutual agreement settle the mode of application of the preceding paragraphs of this Article. Such agreements may include but need not be limited to procedures for implementing routine, spontaneous and industrywide exchanges of information, information exchanges on request, simultaneous tax examinations and such other methods of exchanging information as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of paragraph 1.
5. For the purposes of this Article, the Convention shall apply, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 2 (Taxes covered), to taxes of every kind imposed by a Contracting State.
Article 27
Administrative assistance
1. The Contracting States undertake to lend assistance and support to each other in the collection of the taxes to which this Convention applies, together with interest, costs, and additions to such taxes.
2. In the case of applications for enforcement of taxes, revenue claims of each of the Contracting States which have been finally determined may be accepted for enforcement by the other Contracting State and may be collected in that State in accordance with the laws applicable to the enforcement and collection of its own taxes.
3. Any application shall include a certification that under the laws of the State making the application the taxes have been finally determined.
4. The assistance provided for in this Article shall not be accorded with respect to the citizens, companies, or other entities of the State to which the application is made, except as is necessary to insure that the exemption or reduced rate of tax granted under this Convention to such citizens, companies, or other entities shall not be enjoyed by persons not entitled to such benefits.
5. This Article shall not impose upon either of the Contracting States the obligation to carry out administrative measures which are of a different nature from those used in the collection of its own taxes, or which would be contrary to its sovereignty, security, or public policy.
Article 28
Diplomatic agents and consular officers
Nothing in this Convention shall affect the fiscal privileges of diplomatic agents or consular officers under the general rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
Article 29
Entry into force
1. This Convention shall be subject to ratification in accordance with the applicable procedures of each Contracting State and instruments of ratification shall be exchanged at Washington as soon as possible.
2. The Convention shall enter into force upon the exchange of instruments of ratification and its provisions shall have effect
a) in the case of the United States
(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited on or after the first day of January next following the date on which the Convention enters into force;
(ii) in respect of other taxes, for taxable years beginning on or after the first day of January next following the date on which the Convention enters into force; and
b) in the case of Sweden
(i) in respect of taxes on income, for income derived on or after the first day of January next following the date on which the Convention enters into force;
(ii) in respect of the State capital tax, for tax which is assessed in or after the second calendar year following that in which the Convention enters into force;
(iii) in respect of the excise tax imposed on insurance premiums paid to foreign insurers, for premiums paid on or after the first day of January next following the date on which the Convention enters into force.
3. Upon the coming into effect of this Convention, the Convention and accompanying Protocol between the Government of the United States of America and the Kingdom of Sweden for the avoidance of double taxation and the establishment of rules of reciprocal administrative assistance in the case of income and other taxes, signed at Washington on March 23, 1939, as modified by a Supplementary Convention signed at Stockholm on October 22, 1963, shall terminate. The provisions of the 1939 Convention, as modified, shall cease to have effect with respect to the United States and Sweden from the date on which the corresponding provisions of this Convention shall, for the first time, have effect according to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article. With regard to the Swedish State capital tax, the 1939 Convention shall be applied for the last time for tax assessed the first year after the year in which this Convention enters into force.
Article 30
Termination
This Convention shall remain in force until terminated by a Contracting State. Either Contracting State may terminate the Convention at any time after 5 years from the date on which the Convention enters into force, provided that at least 6 months prior notice of termination has been given through diplomatic channels. In such event, the Convention shall cease to have effect
a) in the case of the United States
(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited on or after the first day of January next following the expiration of the 6 months period;
(ii) in respect of other taxes, for taxable years beginning on or after the first day of January next following the expiration of the 6 months period; and
b) in the case of Sweden
(i) in respect of taxes on income, for income derived on or after the first day of January next following the expiration of the 6 months period;
(ii) in respect of the State capital tax, for tax which is assessed in or after the second calendar year following the expiration of the 6 months period;
(iii) in respect of the excise tax imposed on insurance premiums paid to foreign insurers, for premiums paid on or after the first day of January next following the expiration of the 6 months period.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized by their respective governments, have signed the Convention.
DONE at Stockholm, in duplicate, in the English language, this first day of September, 1994.
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF SWEDEN
Bo Lundgren
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Thomas L. Siebert
I have the honor to refer to the Convention between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Sweden for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income, which was signed today, and to confirm, on behalf of the Government of the United States of America, the following understandings reached between our two Governments.
1. Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) is a consortium within the meaning of Article 8 (Shipping and Air Transport), its participating members being Det Danske Luftfartsselskab A/S
(DDL), Det Norske Luftfartsselskap A/S (DNL), and AB Aerotransport (ABA). In order to avoid the problems inherent in operating in the United States through a consortium, the members of the consortium in 1946 established a New York corporation, Scandinavian Airlines of North America Inc. (SANA Inc.) - originally under the name Scandinavian Airlines System, Inc. - to act on their behalf in the United States pursuant to an agency agreement dated September 18, 1946. A similar agreement was entered into by SAS directly and SANA Inc. on March 14, 1951 and revised on August 4, 1970.
Pursuant to the agency agreement, SANA Inc. is authorized to perform only such functions as SAS assigns to it, all in connection with international air traffic. Under that agreement, all revenues collected by SANA Inc. are automatically credited to SAS. Operating expenses incurred by SANA Inc. are debited to SAS in accordance with the terms of the agency agreement. SAS is obligated under the terms of the agency agreement to reimburse SANA Inc. for all of its expenses irrespective of the revenues of SANA Inc. SANA Inc. does not perform any functions except those connected with or incidental to the business of SAS as an operator of aircraft in international traffic.
In view of the special nature of the SAS consortium and in view of the agency agreement as described above, the United States for purposes of Article 8 (Shipping and Air Transport) of the Convention signed today shall treat all of the income earned by SANA Inc. which is derived from the operation in international traffic of aircraft as the income of the SAS consortium.
2. It is understood that the reference in paragraph 2 of Article 19 (Pensions and Annuities) to legislation similar to the social security legislation of a Contracting State is intended, in the case of the United States, to refer to tier 1 Railroad Retirement benefits.
If this is in accordance with your understanding, I would appreciate an acknowledgment from you to that effect.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
Dated at Stockholm, 1 September, 1994
For the Secretary of State:
Mr. Thomas L. Siebert
Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary of the United
States of America
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of 1 September, 1994 which reads as follows:
"I have the honor - - - assurances of my highest consideration."
I have the honor to confirm, on behalf of the Government of Sweden, that the treatment of Scandinavian Airlines of North America Inc. and of tier 1 Railroad Retirement benefits as specified by you, is in accordance with our understanding.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
Dated at Stockholm, 1 September, 1994
Bo Lundgren
I have the honor to refer to the Protocol amending the Convention between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Sweden for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income, which was signed today, and to confirm, on behalf of the Government of the United States of America, the following understandings reached between our two Governments.
1. With reference to clause ii) of subparagraph e) of paragraph 2 of Article 17 (Limitation on Benefits) of the Convention
It is understood that in applying clause ii) of subparagraph e)
of paragraph 2 of Article 17 (Limitation on Benefits) in the case of Sweden the amount of a person's deductible payments and gross income for the taxable year shall be reduced by the amount of group contributions paid to a Swedish resident or Swedish permanent establishment.
2. With reference to paragraph 6 of Article 17 (Limitation on Benefits) of the Convention
It is understood that in applying paragraph 6 of Article 17
(Limitation on Benefits), the legal requirements for the facilitation of the free flow of capital and persons within the European Union, together with the differing internal income tax systems, tax incentive regimes, and existing tax treaty policies among member states of the European Union, will be considered. Under that paragraph, the competent authority is instructed to consider as its guideline whether the establishment, acquisition or maintenance of a company or the conduct of its operations has or had as one of its principal purposes the obtaining of benefits under this Convention. The competent authority may, therefore, determine, under a given set of facts, that a change in circumstances that would cause a company to cease to qualify for treaty benefits under paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 17 need not necessarily result in a denial of benefits. Such changed circumstances may include a change in the state of residence of a major shareholder of a company, the sale of part of the stock of a Swedish company to a person resident in another member state of the European Union, or an expansion of a company's activities in other member states of the European Union, all under ordinary business conditions. The competent authority will consider these changed circumstances (in addition to other relevant factors normally considered under paragraph 6 of Article 17) in determining whether such a company will remain qualified for treaty benefits with respect to income received from United States sources. If these changed circumstances are not attributable to tax avoidance motives, this also will be considered by the competent authority to be a factor weighing in favor of continued qualification under paragraph 6 of Article 17.
3. With reference to Article 26 (Exchange of Information) of the Convention
It is understood that the powers of each Contracting State's competent authorities to obtain information include powers to obtain information held by financial institutions, nominees, or persons acting in an agency or fiduciary capacity (not including information that would reveal confidential communications between a client and an attorney, solicitor or other legal representative, where the client seeks legal advice), and information relating to the ownership of legal persons, and that each Contracting State's competent authority is able to exchange such information in accordance with the Article.
If this is in accordance with your understanding, I would appreciate an acknowledgment from you to that effect.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
Dated at Washington, September 30, 2005
E. Anthony Wayne
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of September 30, 2005 which reads as follows:
"I have the honor - - - assurances of my highest consideration."
I have the honor to confirm, on behalf of the Government of Sweden, that the references to clause ii) of subparagraph e) of paragraph 2 of Article 17, paragraph 6 of Article 17 and Article 26, as specified by you, is in accordance with our understanding.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
Dated at Washington, September 30, 2005
Gunnar Lund
AVTAL MELLAN SVERIGES REGERING OCH AMERIKAS FÖRENTA STATERS REGERING FÖR UNDVIKANDE AV DUBBELBESKATTNING OCH FÖRHINDRANDE AV SKATTEFLYKT BETRÄFFANDE SKATTER PÅ INKOMST
Sveriges regering och Amerikas förenta staters regering som önskar ingå ett avtal för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning och förhindrande av skatteflykt beträffande skatter på inkomst, har kommit överens om följande:
Artikel 1
Personer på vilka avtalet tillämpas
1. Om inte annat anges i detta avtal, tillämpas avtalet på personer som har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat eller i båda de avtalsslutande staterna.
2. Avtalet begränsar inte på något sätt sådant undantag från beskattning, sådan skattebefrielse, sådant avdrag vid beskattning, sådan avräkning av skatt eller sådan annan skattenedsättning som nu medges eller senare kommer att medges
a) enligt lagstiftningen i endera avtalsslutande staten; eller
b) enligt annan överenskommelse mellan de avtalsslutande staterna.
3. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i punkt 2 b) skall följande gälla:
a) Utan hinder av annat avtal som de avtalsslutande staterna ingått, skall en tvist om huruvida en åtgärd skall anses falla inom ramen för detta avtals tillämpningsområde avgöras endast av de behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna, som anges i punkt 1 e) i artikel 3 i detta avtal, och de förfaranden som föreskrivs i detta avtal skall uteslutande användas avseende denna tvist.
b) Såvida inte de behöriga myndigheterna kommer överens om att en beskattningsåtgärd inte skall anses falla inom ramen för detta avtals tillämpningsområde, skall uteslutande de åtaganden i detta avtal som avser förbud mot diskriminering tillämpas på sådan åtgärd, utom såvitt avser sådan förpliktelse till nationell likabehandling eller mestgynnadnationsbehandling som gäller för varuhandeln enligt GATT. Inga förpliktelser till nationell likabehandling eller mest-gynnad-nationsbehandling enligt något annat avtal skall tillämpas såvitt avser sådan åtgärd.
c) Med uttrycket "åtgärd" förstås i denna punkt lagstiftning, föreskrift, regel, förfarande, beslut, administrativ handling eller varje annan form av åtgärd.
4. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i avtalet, utom punkt 5, får Förenta staterna beskatta person som enligt artikel 4 har hemvist där och, på grund av medborgarskap, person som är medborgare i Förenta staterna, som om avtalet inte hade gällt.
Utan hinder av övriga bestämmelser i detta avtal får en person som tidigare varit medborgare eller långvarigt bosatt i Förenta staterna beskattas i enlighet med lagstiftningen i Förenta staterna under en period av tio år efter det att denna status upphörde.
5. Bestämmelserna i punkt 4 påverkar inte
a) de förmåner som Förenta staterna medger enligt artikel 9 punkt 2, artikel 19 punkt 2 och enligt artiklarna 23, 24 och 25, samt
b) de förmåner som Förenta staterna enligt artiklarna 20, 21 och 28 medger fysiska personer som varken är medborgare eller har immigrantstatus i Förenta staterna.
6. Inkomst eller vinst som förvärvas av eller genom en person vars inkomst enligt lagstiftningen i endera avtalsslutande staten är föremål för delägarbeskattning, skall anses förvärvad av en person med hemvist i en av staterna till den del som inkomsten eller vinsten, enligt skattelagstiftningen i denna stat, behandlas som inkomst eller vinst hos en person med hemvist i staten i fråga.
Artikel 2
Skatter som omfattas av avtalet
1. De för närvarande utgående skatter, på vilka avtalet tillämpas är:
a) i Förenta staterna: de federala inkomstskatter som utgår enligt "Internal Revenue Code" [med undantag för skatten på uppsamlade vinstmedel ("the accumulated earnings tax"), skatten på icke utdelade vinstmedel i förvaltningsbolag ("the personal holding company tax") och socialförsäkringsskatter ("social security taxes")] samt punktskatterna på försäkringspremier som betalas till utländsk försäkringsgivare och på privata stiftelser. Avtalet tillämpas dock i fråga om punktskatterna på försäkringspremier som betalas till utländska försäkringsgivare endast i den mån de risker som täcks av premierna inte återförsäkras hos person som inte är berättigad till de förmåner som medges enligt detta avtal eller annat avtal som undantar dessa skatter, samt
b) i Sverige:
1) den statliga inkomstskatten,
2) kupongskatten,
3) den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta,
4) den särskilda inkomstskatten för utomlands bosatta artister m.fl.,
5) vid tillämpningen av punkt 3 i denna artikel, den statliga förmögenhetsskatten,
6) skatten på vissa premiebetalningar som betalas till utländska försäkringsgivare, och
7) den kommunala inkomstskatten.
2. Avtalet tillämpas även på skatter av samma eller i huvudsak likartat slag som efter undertecknandet av avtalet påförs vid sidan av eller i stället för de ovan angivna skatterna. De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna skall meddela varandra de väsentliga ändringar som vidtagits i respektive skattelagstiftning och om officiellt publicerat material av väsentlig betydelse för avtalets tillämpning, däri inbegripet förklaringar, föreskrifter, domstolsutslag och andra rättsliga avgöranden.
3. Den svenska statliga förmögenhetsskatten skall beträffande följande personer utgå endast i fråga om fast egendom belägen i Sverige och lös egendom hänförlig till fast driftställe som sådan person har i Sverige eller till en stadigvarande anordning som står till sådan persons förfogande i Sverige för självständig yrkesutövning:
a) person med hemvist i Förenta staterna (i enlighet med artikel 4) som är medborgare i Förenta staterna utan att samtidigt vara medborgare i Sverige,
b) person med hemvist i Förenta staterna (i enlighet med artikel 4) som - antingen han är medborgare i Förenta staterna eller inte - har haft hemvist i Förenta staterna under tre på varandra närmast följande år före det första beskattningsår under vilket bestämmelserna i avtalet skall tillämpas, och under varje beskattningsår därefter,
c) medborgare i Förenta staterna, som inte är medborgare i Sverige, som tillfälligt vistas i Sverige under en period som inte överstiger två år, och som har, eller omedelbart före vistelsen hade, hemvist i Förenta staterna (i enlighet med artikel 4),
d) dödsboet efter sådan person som anges i a), b) eller c), eller
e) bolag med hemvist i Förenta staterna (i enlighet med artikel 4).
Artikel 3
Allmänna definitioner
1. Om inte sammanhanget föranleder annat, har vid tillämpningen av detta avtal följande uttryck nedan angiven betydelse:
a) "person" inbegriper fysisk person, dödsbo, "trust", handelsbolag, bolag och annan personsammanslutning,
b) "bolag" åsyftar den som vid inkomstbeskattningen behandlas som juridisk person,
c) "företag i en avtalsslutande stat" och "företag i den andra avtalsslutande staten" åsyftar företag som bedrivs av person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat, respektive företag som bedrivs av person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten,
d) "internationell trafik" åsyftar transport med skepp eller luftfartyg utom då transporten sker uteslutande mellan platser i en avtalsslutande stat,
e) "behörig myndighet" åsyftar:
1) i Förenta staterna, "the Secretary of the Treasury" eller dennes befullmäktigade ombud, och
2) i Sverige, finansministern eller dennes befullmäktigade ombud eller den myndighet åt vilken uppdragits att vara behörig myndighet enligt detta avtal,
f) "Förenta staterna" åsyftar Amerikas förenta stater, men omfattar inte Puerto Rico, Jungfruöarna, Guam eller annan besittning eller annat område som tillhör Förenta staterna.
Uttrycket omfattar Förenta staternas territorialvatten samt havsbottnen och dennas underlag i de områden under vattnet som gränsar till Förenta staternas territorialvatten över vilka områden Amerikas förenta stater i överensstämmelse med folkrättens regler utövar suveräna rättigheter i fråga om utforskning och utnyttjande av områdenas naturtillgångar,
g) "Sverige" åsyftar Konungariket Sverige och, när uttrycket används i geografisk bemärkelse, Sveriges territorium, dess territorialvatten liksom de andra havsområden över vilka Sverige i överensstämmelse med folkrättens regler utövar suveräna rättigheter eller jurisdiktion.
2. Då en avtalsslutande stat tillämpar detta avtal anses, såvida inte sammanhanget föranleder annat eller de behöriga myndigheterna i enlighet med bestämmelserna i artikel 25 träffar överenskommelse om uttryckets innebörd, varje uttryck, som inte definierats i avtalet, ha den betydelse som uttrycket har enligt den statens lagstiftning i fråga om sådana skatter på vilka avtalet tillämpas.
Artikel 4
Hemvist
1. a) Vid tillämpningen av detta avtal förstås med uttrycket
"person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat" person som enligt lagstiftningen i denna stat är skattskyldig där på grund av domicil, bosättning, plats för företagsledning, bolagsbildning eller annan liknande omständighet. Uttrycket inbegriper även denna stat samt dess politiska underavdelningar och lokala myndigheter. Uttrycket inbegriper emellertid inte person som är skattskyldig i denna stat endast för inkomst från källa i denna stat eller endast för inkomst som är hänförlig till ett fast driftställe i denna stat.
b) En medborgare i Förenta staterna eller en utlänning som har erhållit tillstånd enligt lag att varaktigt uppehålla sig i Förenta staterna, har hemvist i Förenta staterna, men endast i det fall sådan person uppehåller sig under betydande tid, har en permanent bostad eller vistas stadigvarande i Förenta staterna. Om en sådan person har hemvist även i Sverige enligt denna punkt, behandlas han också som person med hemvist i Förenta staterna enligt denna punkt och hans hemvist skall bestämmas enligt punkt 2.
c) Uttrycket "person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat"
inbegriper en juridisk person som bildats enligt lagstiftningen i denna avtalsslutande stat och som är generellt undantagen från beskattning i denna stat samt är grundad i och administreras i denna stat antingen:
1) i uteslutande religiöst, välgörande, vetenskapligt, konstnärligt, kulturellt eller utbildningsfrämjande syfte, eller
2) för att tillhandahålla pensioner eller andra liknande pensionsförmåner enligt en pensionsplan.
2. Då på grund av bestämmelserna i punkt 1 en fysisk person har hemvist i båda de avtalsslutande staterna, bestäms hans hemvist på följande sätt:
a) han anses ha hemvist i den stat där han har en bostad som stadigvarande står till hans förfogande; om han har en sådan bostad i båda staterna, anses han ha hemvist i den stat med vilken hans personliga och ekonomiska förbindelser är starkast
(centrum för levnadsintressena),
b) om det inte kan avgöras i vilken stat han har centrum för sina levnadsintressen eller om han inte i någondera staten har en bostad som stadigvarande står till hans förfogande, anses han ha hemvist i den stat där han stadigvarande vistas,
c) om han stadigvarande vistas i båda staterna eller om han inte vistas stadigvarande i någon av dem, anses han ha hemvist i den stat där han är medborgare,
d) om han är medborgare i båda staterna eller om han inte är medborgare i någon av dem, avgör de behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna frågan genom ömsesidig överenskommelse.
3. Då på grund av bestämmelserna i punkt 1 ett bolag har hemvist i båda avtalsslutande staterna, anses bolaget i fråga, om det bildats enligt lagstiftningen i en avtalsslutande stat eller i en av dess politiska underavdelningar, ha hemvist endast i denna stat.
4. Då på grund av bestämmelserna i punkt 1 annan person än fysisk person och bolag har hemvist i båda avtalsslutande staterna, avgör de behöriga myndigheterna frågan genom ömsesidig överenskommelse.
Artikel 5
Fast driftställe
1. Vid tillämpningen av detta avtal åsyftar uttrycket "fast driftställe" en stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet från vilken ett företags verksamhet helt eller delvis bedrivs.
2. Uttrycket "fast driftställe" innefattar särskilt:
a) plats för företagsledning,
b) filial,
c) kontor,
d) fabrik,
e) verkstad, och
f) gruva, olje- eller gaskälla, stenbrott eller annan plats för utvinning av naturtillgångar.
3. En plats för byggnads-, anläggnings- eller installationsverksamhet utgör fast driftställe endast om verksamheten pågår mer än tolv månader. Användningen i en avtalsslutande stat av installation, borrplattform eller skepp för att utforska eller utvinna naturtillgångar utgör fast driftställe endast om användningen pågår under mer än tolv månader.
4. Utan hinder av föregående bestämmelser i denna artikel anses uttrycket "fast driftställe" inte innefatta:
a) användningen av anordningar uteslutande för lagring, utställning eller utlämnande av företaget tillhöriga varor,
b) innehavet av ett företaget tillhörigt varulager uteslutande för lagring, utställning eller utlämnande,
c) innehavet av ett företaget tillhörigt varulager uteslutande för bearbetning eller förädling genom annat företags försorg,
d) innehavet av en stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet uteslutande för inköp av varor eller införskaffande av upplysningar för företaget,
e) innehavet av en stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet uteslutande för att för företaget bedriva annan verksamhet av förberedande eller biträdande art,
f) innehavet av en stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet uteslutande för att kombinera verksamheter som anges i punkterna a)-e).
5. Om en person, som inte är sådan oberoende representant på vilken punkt 6 tillämpas, är verksam för ett företag samt i en avtalsslutande stat har och där regelmässigt använder fullmakt att sluta avtal i företagets namn, anses detta företag - utan hinder av bestämmelserna i punkterna 1 och 2 - ha fast driftställe i denna stat i fråga om varje verksamhet som denna person bedriver för företaget. Detta gäller dock inte, om den verksamhet som denna person bedriver är begränsad till sådan som anges i punkt 4 och som - om den bedrevs från en stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet - inte skulle göra denna stadigvarande plats för affärsverksamhet till ett fast driftställe enligt bestämmelserna i nämnda punkt.
6. Företag anses inte ha fast driftställe i en avtalsslutande stat endast på den grund att företaget bedriver affärsverksamhet i denna stat genom förmedling av mäklare, kommissionär eller annan oberoende representant, under förutsättning att en sådan person därvid bedriver sin sedvanliga affärsverksamhet.
7. Den omständigheten att ett bolag med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat kontrollerar eller kontrolleras av ett bolag med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten eller ett bolag som bedriver affärsverksamhet i denna andra stat
(antingen från fast driftställe eller på annat sätt), medför inte i och för sig att någotdera bolaget utgör fast driftställe för det andra.
Artikel 6
Inkomst av fast egendom
1. Inkomst, som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar av fast egendom belägen i den andra avtalsslutande staten (däri inbegripen inkomst av lantbruk eller skogsbruk)
får beskattas i denna andra stat.
2. Uttrycket "fast egendom" har den betydelse som uttrycket har enligt lagstiftningen i den avtalsslutande stat där egendomen är belägen. Uttrycket omfattar dock alltid tillbehör till fast egendom, levande och döda inventarier i lantbruk och skogsbruk, rättigheter på vilka bestämmelserna i privaträtten om fast egendom tillämpas, byggnader, nyttjanderätt till fast egendom samt rätt till föränderliga eller fasta ersättningar för nyttjandet av eller rätten att nyttja mineralförekomst, källa eller annan naturtillgång. Skepp, båtar och luftfartyg anses inte vara fast egendom.
3. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 tillämpas på inkomst, som förvärvas genom omedelbart brukande, genom uthyrning eller genom annan användning av fast egendom.
4. Bestämmelserna i punkterna 1 och 3 tilllämpas även på inkomst av fast egendom som tillhör företag och inkomst av fast egendom som används vid självständig yrkesutövning.
Artikel 7
Inkomst av rörelse
1. Inkomst av rörelse, som företag i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar, beskattas endast i denna stat, såvida inte företaget bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten från ett där beläget fast driftställe. Om företaget bedriver rörelse på nyss angivet sätt, får företagets inkomst beskattas i den andra staten men endast så stor del därav som är hänförlig till det fasta driftstället.
2. Om ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten från ett där beläget fast driftställe, hänförs, om inte bestämmelserna i punkt 3 föranleder annat, i vardera avtalsslutande staten till det fasta driftstället den inkomst som det kan antas att driftstället skulle ha förvärvat, om det hade varit ett fristående företag, som bedrivit verksamhet av samma eller liknande slag under samma eller liknande villkor.
3. Vid bestämmandet av ett fast driftställes inkomst medges avdrag för utgifter som uppkommit för det fasta driftstället, härunder inbegripen en skälig del av utgifterna för företagets ledning och allmänna förvaltning, forsknings- och utvecklingskostnader, räntor och andra utgifter som uppkommit för företaget i sin helhet (eller den del därav som inbegriper det fasta driftstället) oavsett om utgifterna uppkommit i den stat där det fasta driftstället är beläget eller annorstädes.
4. Inkomst hänförs inte till ett fast driftställe endast av den anledningen att varor inköps för företaget genom det fasta driftställets försorg.
5. Vid tillämpningen av detta avtal skall endast inkomst som härrör från det fasta driftställets tillgångar eller verksamhet inräknas i den inkomst som är hänförlig till det fasta driftstället. Denna inkomst bestäms genom samma förfarande år från år, såvida inte goda och tillräckliga skäl föranleder annat.
6. Ingår i inkomst av rörelse inkomster som behandlas särskilt i andra artiklar av detta avtal, berörs bestämmelserna i dessa artiklar inte av reglerna i denna artikel.
7. Uttrycket "inkomst" i denna artikel avser inkomst som förvärvas genom handel eller affärsverksamhet, uthyrning av materiell lös egendom häri inbegripen, vare sig verksamheten bedrivs av en fysisk person, ett bolag eller annan person eller av en grupp av personer.
8. a) Den skatt som i Förenta staterna utgår på försäkringspremier som betalas till utländska försäkringsgivare skall inte tas ut på försäkrings eller återförsäkringspremier som utgör intäkter i försäkringsrörelse som bedrivs av person med hemvist i Sverige oavsett om rörelsen bedrivs genom fast driftställe i Förenta staterna eller inte. Sådan skattebefrielse medges dock endast i den mån ifrågavarande risker inte direkt eller indirekt återförsäkrats hos person som inte är berättigad till befrielse från sådan skatt.
b) Den skatt som i Sverige utgår på försäkringspremier som betalas till utländska försäkringsgivare skall inte tas ut på försäkringspremier som utgör intäkter i försäkringsrörelse som bedrivs av person med hemvist i Förenta staterna oavsett om rörelsen bedrivs genom fast driftställe i Sverige eller inte.
9. Utan hinder av punkt 6 i denna artikel är vid tillämpningen av punkterna 1 och 2 i denna artikel, artikel 13 punkt 3, artikel 14 och artikel 22 varje inkomst, realisationsvinst eller utgift som hänförs till ett fast driftställe eller en stadigvarande anordning under dess fortbestånd, skattepliktig eller avdragsgill i den avtalsslutande stat där det fasta driftstället eller den stadigvarande anordningen är belägen även om betalningarna har skjutits upp till dess att det fasta driftstället eller den stadigvarande anordningen har avvecklats.
Artikel 8
Sjöfart och luftfart
1. Inkomst som förvärvas av företag i en avtalsslutande stat genom användningen av skepp eller luftfartyg i internationell trafik beskattas endast i denna stat.
2. Vid tillämpningen av denna artikel anses inkomst på grund av uthyrning av skepp eller luftfartyg som inkomst genom användningen av skepp eller luftfartyg i internationell trafik, om uthyrningsinkomsten äger samband med sådan annan inkomst som anges i punkt 1.
3. Inkomst, som förvärvas av företag i en avtalsslutande stat genom användning, underhåll eller uthyrning av containrar
(trailers, pråmar och annan därtill hörande utrustning för transport av containrar däri inbegripna) som används i internationell trafik, beskattas endast i denna stat.
4. Bestämmelserna i punkterna 1 och 3 tilllämpas även på inkomst som förvärvas genom deltagande i en pool, ett gemensamt företag eller en internationell driftsorganisation.
Bestämmelserna i punkterna 1 och 3 tillämpas även på inkomst som förvärvas av luftfartskonsortiet Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) men endast i fråga om den del av inkomsten som motsvarar den andel i konsortiet som innehas av AB Aerotransport (ABA), den svenske delägaren i Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS).
Artikel 9
Företag med intressegemenskap
1. I fall då
a) ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat direkt eller indirekt deltar i ledningen eller kontrollen av ett företag i den andra avtalsslutande staten eller äger del i detta företags kapital, eller
b) samma personer direkt eller indirekt deltar i ledningen eller kontrollen av såväl ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat som ett företag i den andra avtalsslutande staten eller äger del i båda dessa företags kapital, iakttas följande.
Om mellan företagen i fråga om deras handelsförbindelser eller finansiella förbindelser avtalas eller föreskrivs villkor, som avviker från dem som skulle ha avtalats mellan av varandra oberoende företag, får all inkomst, som utan sådana villkor skulle ha tillkommit det ena företaget men som på grund av villkoren i fråga inte tillkommit detta företag, inräknas i detta företags inkomst och beskattas i överensstämmelse därmed.
2. I fall då inkomst, för vilken ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat beskattats i denna stat, även inräknas i inkomsten för ett företag i den andra avtalsslutande staten och beskattas i överensstämmelse därmed i denna andra stat samt den sålunda inräknade inkomsten är sådan som skulle ha tillkommit företaget i den förstnämnda staten om de villkor som avtalats mellan företagen hade varit sådana som skulle ha avtalats mellan av varandra oberoende företag, skall den andra staten genomföra vederbörlig justering av det skattebelopp som påförts för inkomsten i denna stat. Vid sådan justering iakttas övriga bestämmelser i detta avtal och de behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna överlägger vid behov med varandra.
3. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 begränsar inte sådana bestämmelser i en avtalsslutande stats lagstiftning som medger fördelning, proportionering eller annan uppdelning av inkomst eller avdrag, avräkning eller betalningar mellan personer - vare sig dessa har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat eller inte - vilka ägs eller kontrolleras, direkt eller indirekt, av samma intressenter, om sådana åtgärder behövs för att förhindra skatteflykt eller för att på ett riktigt sätt bestämma sådana personers inkomst.
Artikel 10
Utdelning
1. Utdelning från bolag med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat till person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten får beskattas i denna andra stat.
2. Utdelningen får emellertid beskattas även i den avtalsslutande stat där bolaget som betalar utdelningen har hemvist, enligt lagstiftningen i denna stat, men om mottagaren har rätt till utdelningen får skatten inte överstiga:
a) 5 procent av utdelningens bruttobelopp om den som har rätt till utdelningen är ett bolag vilket äger andelar som representerar minst 10 procent av röstetalet i det utdelande bolaget,
b) 15 procent av utdelningens bruttobelopp i övriga fall.
Denna punkt berör inte bolagets beskattning för vinst av vilken utdelningen betalas.
3. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i punkt 2, skall sådan utdelning inte beskattas i den avtalsslutande stat där det bolag som betalar utdelningen har hemvist om den som har rätt till utdelningen är:
a) ett bolag med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten som under en sammanhängande period av 12 månader före den dag då det bestäms vem som är berättigad till utdelningen, har ägt, direkt eller indirekt genom en eller flera personer med hemvist i endera avtalsslutande staten, andelar som representerar minst 80 procent av röstetalet i det utdelande bolaget och:
1) uppfyller villkoren i artikel 17 punkt 2 c) 1) eller 2),
2) uppfyller villkoren i artikel 17 punkt 2 e) 1) och 2), om bolaget uppfyller de villkor som anges i punkt 4 i nämnda artikel avseende utdelningen,
3) är berättigat till avtalsförmåner beträffande utdelningen enligt artikel 17 punkt 3, eller
4) har erhållit ett beslut enligt artikel 17 punkt 6 avseende denna punkt, eller
b) en pensionsfond med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten, om:
1) utdelningen inte förvärvas genom en av pensionsfonden, eller ett företag i intressegemenskap med pensionsfonden, bedriven affärsverksamhet, och
2) pensionsfonden inte säljer, eller ingår avtal om att sälja, de andelar på vilka utdelningen belöper inom två månader efter det datum då pensionsfonden förvärvade andelarna.
Vid bestämmandet av om ett bolag är berättigat till avtalsförmåner beträffande utdelningen enligt artikel 17 punkt 3, som avses i a) 3) ovan i denna punkt, skall bestämmandet av om en person, som direkt eller indirekt äger andelar i bolaget, är en jämförlig förmånstagare göras genom att en sådan person behandlas som ägare till samma röstandel i det utdelande bolaget som innehas av det bolag som yrkar på avtalsförmåner.
4. a) Bestämmelserna i punkterna 2 a) och 3 a) tillämpas inte på utdelning som betalas av ett "U.S. Regulated Investment Company" (RIC) eller en "Real Estate Investment Trust" (REIT).
På utdelning som betalas av ett RIC tillämpas punkterna 2 b)
och 3 b). På utdelning som betalas av en REIT tillämpas punkterna 2 b) och 3 b) endast om:
1) den som har rätt till utdelningen är en fysisk person eller en pensionsfond vars innehav i trusten inte överstiger 10 procent,
2) utdelningen betalas på ett slag av andelar som är föremål för allmän omsättning och den som har rätt till utdelningen är en person som innehar högst 5 procent av något slag av andelar i trusten, eller
3) den som har rätt till utdelningen är en person vars innehav i trusten uppgår till högst 10 procent och trusten är diversifierad.
b) Vid tillämpningen av denna punkt skall en REIT anses
"diversifierad" om värdet av varje enskild fastighetsinvestering uppgår till högst 10 procent av värdet av det samlade fastighetsinnehavet. Vid tillämpningen av denna bestämmelse skall utmätt egendom inte anses utgöra ett fastighetsinnehav. En REIT som äger andelar i ett handelsbolag skall anses som direkt ägare av så stor andel av handelsbolagets fastighetsinnehav som motsvarar dess andel i handelsbolaget.
5. Med uttrycket "utdelning" förstås i denna artikel inkomst av aktier eller andra rättigheter, som inte är fordringar med rätt till andel i vinst, samt inkomst av andra andelar, som enligt lagstiftningen i den stat där det utdelande bolaget har hemvist, beskattas på samma sätt som inkomst av aktier liksom även inkomst genom dispositioner, skuldförbindelser däri inbegripna, med rätt till andel i vinst i den utsträckning sådan inkomst anses utgöra utdelning enligt lagstiftningen i den avtalsslutande stat varifrån inkomsten härrör samt, i Förenta staterna, villkorad ränta som inte klassificeras som
"portföljränta" enligt lagstiftningen i Förenta staterna.
6. Bestämmelserna i punkterna 2 och 3 tilllämpas inte om den som har rätt till utdelningen har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat och bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten, där bolaget som betalar utdelningen har hemvist, från ett där beläget fast driftställe eller utövar självständig yrkesverksamhet i denna andra stat från en där belägen stadigvarande anordning, samt den andel på grund av vilken utdelningen betalas äger verkligt samband med det fasta driftstället eller den stadigvarande anordningen. I sådant fall tillämpas bestämmelserna i artikel 7 respektive artikel 14.
7. En avtalsslutande stat får inte beskatta utdelning som ett bolag som inte har hemvist i denna stat betalar, utom i den mån:
a) utdelningen betalas till en person med hemvist i denna stat, eller
b) utdelningen är hänförlig till fast driftställe eller stadigvarande anordning i denna stat.
8. En organisation med hemvist i Sverige, som drivs i religiöst, vetenskapligt, litterärt, utbildningsfrämjande eller välgörande syfte och som erhållit nästan alla sina medel från personer som inte är medborgare eller har hemvist i Förenta staterna, skall i Förenta staterna vara undantagen från dess punktskatter som tas ut på privata stiftelser.
9. Ett bolag med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat som har ett fast driftställe i den andra avtalsslutande staten, eller är skattskyldigt i den andra avtalsslutande staten för sådan inkomst som får beskattas i denna andra stat enligt artikel 6 eller enligt artikel 13 punkt 1, får i denna andra avtalsslutande stat beskattas med en skatt utöver den skatt som får tas ut enligt andra bestämmelser i detta avtal. Sådan skatt får emellertid
a) i Förenta staterna tas ut endast på
1) den del av bolagets rörelseinkomst som är hänförlig till det fasta driftstället, och
2) den del av sådan inkomst som anges i föregående mening och som beskattas enligt artikel 6 eller artikel 13 punkt 1,
som representerar "ett belopp motsvarande utdelning" av denna vinst eller inkomst; uttrycket "ett belopp motsvarande utdelning" har, vid tillämpningen av denna bestämmelse, den innebörd som uttrycket har enligt lagstiftningen i Förenta staterna så som den kan komma att ändras från tid till annan utan att de allmänna principerna i denna lagstiftning ändras, och
b) i Sverige tas ut endast på den del av sådan inkomst som anges i a) vilken motsvarar det belopp som skulle ha delats ut av ett lokalt bildat dotterbolag.
10. Den skatt som anges i punkt 9 a) och b) skall inte tas ut med högre procentsats än den som anges i punkt 2 a). Sådan skatt skall dock inte tas ut av ett bolag som:
a) uppfyller villkoren i artikel 17 punkt 2 c) 1) eller 2),
b) uppfyller villkoren i artikel 17 punkt 2 e) 1) och 2), under förutsättning att bolaget uppfyller villkoren i artikel 17 punkt 4 avseende sådan inkomst eller vinst som avses i punkt 9,
c) är berättigat till avtalsförmåner enligt artikel 17 punkt 3 avseende sådan inkomst eller vinst som anges i punkt 9, eller
d) har erhållit ett beslut enligt artikel 17 punkt 6 avseende denna punkt.
11. Uttrycket "pensionsfond" i denna artikel avser person som:
a) är bildad enligt lagstiftningen i en avtalsslutande stat,
b) är etablerad i och förvaltas i denna avtalsslutande stat huvudsakligen för att administrera eller tillhandahålla pensioner eller liknande ersättning, inbegripet betalningar enligt socialförsäkringslagstiftningen, och
c) är undantagen från beskattning i denna avtalsslutande stat på sådan verksamhet som anges ovan under b).
Artikel 11
Ränta
1. Ränta, som härrör från en avtalsslutande stat och som betalas till person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten, beskattas endast i denna andra stat, om personen i fråga har rätt till räntan.
2. Med uttrycket "ränta" förstås i denna artikel inkomst av varje slags fordran, vare sig den säkerställts genom inteckning i fast egendom eller inte och vare sig den medför rätt till andel i gäldenärens vinst eller inte. Uttrycket åsyftar särskilt inkomst av värdepapper som utfärdats av staten och inkomst av obligationer eller debentures, däri inbegripna agiobelopp och vinster som hänför sig till sådana värdepapper, obligationer eller debentures samt också överränta som belöper på ett residualinnehav i en "real estate mortgage investment conduit". Straffavgift på grund av sen betalning anses inte som ränta vid tillämpningen av detta avtal. Uttrycket "ränta"
omfattar dock inte inkomst som omfattas av bestämmelserna i artikel 10.
3. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 tillämpas inte, om den som har rätt till räntan har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat och bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten, från vilken räntan härrör, från där beläget fast driftställe eller utövar självständig yrkesverksamhet i denna andra stat från där belägen stadigvarande anordning, samt den fordran för vilken räntan betalas äger verkligt samband med det fasta driftstället eller den stadigvarande anordningen. I sådant fall tillämpas artikel 7 respektive artikel 14.
4. Ränta anses härröra från en avtalsslutande stat om utbetalaren är den staten själv, politisk underavdelning, lokal myndighet eller person med hemvist i denna stat. Om emellertid den person som betalar räntan, vare sig han har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat eller inte, i en avtalsslutande stat har fast driftställe eller stadigvarande anordning, och räntan belastar det fasta driftstället eller den stadigvarande anordningen, anses räntan härröra från den stat där det fasta driftstället eller den stadigvarande anordningen finns.
5. Då på grund av särskilda förbindelser mellan utbetalaren och den som har rätt till räntan eller mellan dem båda och annan person räntebeloppet, med hänsyn till den fordran för vilken räntan betalas, överstiger det belopp som skulle ha avtalats mellan utbetalaren och den som har rätt till räntan om sådana förbindelser inte förelegat, tillämpas bestämmelserna i denna artikel endast på sistnämnda belopp. I sådant fall beskattas överskjutande belopp enligt lagstiftningen i vardera avtalsslutande staten med iakttagande av övriga bestämmelser i detta avtal.
6. En avtalsslutande stat får inte beskatta ränta som betalas av person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten, utom i den mån
a) räntan betalas till person med hemvist i den förstnämnda staten,
b) räntan är hänförlig till fast driftställe eller stadigvarande anordning i den förstnämnda staten, eller
c) räntan härrör från den förstnämnda staten och inte betalas till person med hemvist i den andra staten.
7. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i punkt 1 i denna artikel får överränta som belöper på ett residualinnehav i en "real estate mortgage investment conduit" beskattas i den avtalsslutande stat varifrån överräntan enligt lagstiftningen i denna stat härrör.
Artikel 12
Royalty
1. Royalty som härrör från en avtalsslutande stat och som betalas till person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten, beskattas endast i denna andra stat, om personen i fråga har rätt till royaltyn.
2. Med uttrycket "royalty" förstås i denna artikel varje slags betalning som tas emot såsom ersättning för nyttjandet av eller för rätten att nyttja upphovsrätt till litterärt, konstnärligt eller vetenskapligt verk (häri inbegripna biograffilmer och verk inspelade på film, band eller annat medel för återgivning som används för radio- eller televisionsutsändningar), patent, varumärke, mönster eller modell, ritning, hemligt recept eller hemlig tillverkningsmetod eller annan liknande rättighet eller egendom eller för upplysning om erfarenhetsrön av industriell, kommersiell eller vetenskaplig natur. Uttrycket "royalty"
inbegriper också vinst på grund av överlåtelse av sådan rättighet eller egendom om vinsten beror på resultatet, användningen eller överlåtelsen av denna.
3. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 tillämpas inte, om den som har rätt till royaltyn har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat och bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten, från vilken royaltyn härrör, från ett där beläget fast driftställe eller utövar självständig yrkesverksamhet i denna andra stat från en där belägen stadigvarande anordning, samt den rättighet eller egendom i fråga om vilken royaltyn betalas äger verkligt samband med det fasta driftstället eller den stadigvarande anordningen. I sådant fall tillämpas bestämmelserna i artikel 7 respektive artikel 14.
4. Då på grund av särskilda förbindelser mellan utbetalaren och den som har rätt till royaltyn eller mellan dem båda och annan person royaltybeloppet, med hänsyn till det nyttjande, den rättighet eller den upplysning för vilken royaltyn betalas, överstiger det belopp som skulle ha avtalats mellan utbetalaren och den som har rätt till royaltyn om sådana förbindelser inte förelegat, tillämpas bestämmelserna i denna artikel endast på sistnämnda belopp. I sådant fall beskattas överskjutande belopp enligt lagstiftningen i vardera avtalsslutande staten med iakttagande av övriga bestämmelser i detta avtal.
Artikel 13
Realisationsvinst
1. Vinst, som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar på grund av överlåtelse av fast egendom som är belägen i den andra avtalsslutande staten, får beskattas i denna andra stat.
2. Vid tillämpningen av punkt 1 skall
a) uttrycket "fast egendom som är belägen i den andra avtalsslutande staten", i det fall då Förenta staterna är denna andra avtalsslutande stat, inbegripa sådan fast egendom som avses i artikel 6 och som är belägen i Förenta staterna, "a United States real property interest" och ett innehav i ett handelsbolag, dödsbo eller en trust till den del sådant innehav består av "a United States real property interest" som är belägen i Förenta staterna,
b) uttrycket "fast egendom som är belägen i den andra avtalsslutande staten", i det fall då Sverige är denna andra avtalsslutande stat, inbegripa egendom som är fast egendom enligt svensk rätt och som är belägen i Sverige samt skall, utan att inskränka vad som anges ovan, också inbegripa
1) sådan fast egendom som avses i artikel 6 och som är belägen i Sverige, och
2) andelar och liknande rättigheter i bolag vars tillgångar, direkt eller indirekt, huvudsakligen utgörs av sådan fast egendom.
3. Vinst på grund av överlåtelse av lös egendom som hänför sig till ett fast driftställe, vilket ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat har i den andra avtalsslutande staten, eller till en stadigvarande anordning för att utöva självständig yrkesverksamhet, som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat har i den andra avtalsslutande staten, får beskattas i denna andra stat. Detsamma gäller vinst på grund av överlåtelse av sådant fast driftställe (för sig eller i samband med överlåtelse av hela företaget) eller av sådan stadigvarande anordning.
4. Vinst som ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar på grund av överlåtelse av skepp eller luftfartyg som används i internationell trafik eller lös egendom som är hänförlig till användningen av sådana skepp eller luftfartyg beskattas endast i denna stat. Bestämmelserna i denna punkt tillämpas beträffande vinst som förvärvas av luftfartskonsortiet Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) men endast i fråga om den del av vinsten som motsvarar den andel i konsortiet som innehas av AB Aerotransport (ABA), den svenske delägaren i Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS).
Vinst som ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar på grund av överlåtelse av containrar som används i internationell trafik eller lös egendom som är hänförlig till användningen av sådana containrar (trailers, pråmar och annan därtill hörande utrustning för transport av containrar däri inbegripna)
beskattas endast i denna stat.
5. Sådan vinst som anges i artikel 12 skall beskattas endast enligt bestämmelserna i artikel 12.
6. Vinst på grund av överlåtelse av annan egendom än sådan som anges i punkterna 1-5 beskattas, om inte punkt 7 föreskriver annat, endast i den avtalsslutande stat där överlåtaren har hemvist.
7. Bestämmelserna i punkt 6 inverkar inte på Sveriges rätt att, i fråga om fysisk person som haft hemvist i Sverige och som fått hemvist i Förenta staterna, beskatta vinst som förvärvas av en sådan person på grund av överlåtelse av tillgång vid något tillfälle under de tio år som följer närmast efter den tidpunkt vid vilken denne person upphört att ha hemvist i Sverige.
Artikel 14
Självständig yrkesutövning
Inkomst som en fysisk person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar genom att utöva självständig yrkesverksamhet, beskattas endast i denna stat. Sådan inkomst får emellertid också beskattas i den andra avtalsslutande staten till den del verksamheten utövas eller utövats i denna andra stat och inkomsten är hänförlig till en stadigvarande anordning som regelmässigt står till hans förfogande i denna andra stat för att utöva verksamheten.
Artikel 15
Enskild tjänst
1. Om inte bestämmelserna i artiklarna 16, 19 och 20 föranleder annat, beskattas lön och annan liknande ersättning, som en person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat uppbär på grund av anställning, endast i denna stat, såvida inte arbetet utförs i den andra avtalsslutande staten. Om arbetet utförs i denna andra stat, får ersättning som uppbärs för arbetet beskattas där.
2. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i punkt 1 beskattas ersättning, som en person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat uppbär för arbete som utförs i den andra avtalsslutande staten endast i den förstnämnda staten, om
a) mottagaren vistas i den andra staten under en tidsperiod eller tidsperioder som sammanlagt inte överstiger 183 dagar under en sammanhängande tolvmånadersperiod, och
b) ersättningen betalas av arbetsgivare som inte har hemvist i den andra staten eller på dennes vägnar, samt
c) ersättningen inte belastar ett fast driftställe eller en stadigvarande anordning som arbetsgivaren har i den andra staten.
3. Utan hinder av föregående bestämmelser i denna artikel beskattas ersättning som uppbärs av person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat för arbete som utförs i egenskap av medlem av den reguljära besättningen ombord på skepp eller luftfartyg som används i internationell trafik, endast i denna stat. Detta gäller även när arbetet utförs ombord på luftfartyg som används i internationell trafik av luftfartskonsortiet Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS). Ersättning för arbete, som utförs i egenskap av medlem av den reguljära besättningen ombord på ett skepp som används i internationell trafik av ett svenskt företag, får dock beskattas i Sverige.
Artikel 16
Styrelsearvode
Styrelsearvode som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat uppbär i egenskap av medlem av styrelsen i ett bolag med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten, får beskattas i denna andra stat. Sådant arvode beskattas emellertid endast i den förstnämnda avtalsslutande staten till den del arvodet uppbärs för arbete som utförts i denna stat.
Artikel 17
Begränsning av förmåner
1. En person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat skall vara berättigad till förmåner som tillkommer person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat enligt detta avtal endast i den utsträckning som anges i denna artikel.
2. En person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat skall vara berättigad till samtliga förmåner som följer av detta avtal om personen är:
a) en fysisk person,
b) en avtalsslutande stat eller en av dess politiska underavdelningar eller lokala myndigheter,
c) ett bolag om:
1) dess viktigaste aktieslag (samt varje oproportionerligt aktieslag) regelmässigt omsätts på en eller flera erkända aktiebörser, och antingen
A) dess viktigaste aktieslag huvudsakligen omsätts på en erkänd aktiebörs i den avtalsslutande stat där bolaget har hemvist eller, såvitt avser bolag med hemvist i Sverige, på en erkänd aktiebörs inom Europeiska unionen eller i en annan stat inom Europeiska ekonomiska samarbetsområdet eller i Schweiz eller, såvitt avser bolag med hemvist i Förenta staterna, på en erkänd aktiebörs i någon annan stat som är part i Nordamerikanska frihandelsavtalet (Nafta), eller
B) bolagets huvudsakliga ledning och kontroll finns i den avtalsslutande stat där bolaget har hemvist, eller
2) minst 50 procent av det sammanlagda röstetalet och värdet av aktierna i bolaget (samt minst 50 procent av varje oproportionerligt aktieslag) ägs direkt eller indirekt av fem eller färre bolag som är berättigade till avtalsförmåner enligt 1) ovan i denna bestämmelse, dock, vid indirekt ägande, endast under förutsättning att varje mellanliggande ägare har hemvist i endera avtalsslutande staten,
d) en person som anges i artikel 4 punkt 1 c), dock, såvitt avser person som anges i artikel 4 punkt 1 c) 2), endast under förutsättning att antingen:
1) mer än 50 procent av personens förmånstagare, medlemmar eller deltagare är fysiska personer med hemvist i endera avtalsslutande staten, eller
2) den organisation som finansierar en sådan person är berättigad till avtalsförmåner enligt denna artikel, eller
e) en person, som inte är en fysisk person, om:
1) minst 50 procent av varje aktieslag eller annat ägarinnehav i personen, under minst hälften av beskattningsårets dagar, ägs direkt eller indirekt av personer med hemvist i den avtalsslutande stat där personen har hemvist och som är berättigade till avtalsförmåner enligt a), b), c) 1) eller d) i denna punkt, och
2) mindre än 50 procent av personens bruttointäkt för beskattningsåret såsom denna bestäms i personens hemviststat, direkt eller indirekt betalas till eller tillkommer personer som inte är personer med hemvist i någon av de avtalsslutande staterna som har rätt till förmåner enligt detta avtal med stöd av a), b), c) 1) eller d) i denna punkt, i form av betalningar som i den stat där personen har hemvist är avdragsgilla vid beräkningen av de skatter som omfattas av detta avtal (detta gäller dock inte betalningar på marknadsmässiga villkor som görs inom ramen för den sedvanliga affärsverksamheten för tjänster eller materiella tillgångar eller betalningar för finansiella förbindelser till en bank som är oberoende av utbetalaren).
3. Ett bolag med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat skall även vara berättigat till avtalsförmåner om:
a) minst 95 procent av det sammanlagda röstetalet och värdet av aktierna i bolaget (samt minst 50 procent av varje oproportionerligt aktieslag), ägs direkt eller indirekt av sju eller färre personer som uppfyller villkoren för att vara s.k.
jämförliga förmånstagare, och
b) mindre än 50 procent av bolagets bruttointäkt för beskattningsåret såsom denna bestäms i bolagets hemviststat, direkt eller indirekt betalas till eller tillkommer personer som inte är jämförliga förmånstagare, i form av betalningar som i den stat där bolaget har hemvist är avdragsgilla vid beräkningen av de skatter som omfattas av detta avtal (detta gäller dock inte betalningar på marknadsmässiga villkor som görs inom ramen för den sedvanliga affärsverksamheten för tjänster eller materiella tillgångar eller betalningar för finansiella förbindelser till en bank som är oberoende av utbetalaren).
4. a) En person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat är berättigad till avtalsförmåner beträffande inkomst som härrör från den andra avtalsslutande staten, oavsett om personen är berättigad till avtalsförmåner enligt punkt 2 eller 3, om personen bedriver en aktiv affärsrörelse i den förstnämnda staten (med undantag för rörelse som består i att göra kapitalplaceringar eller att förvalta investeringar för personens egen räkning, såvida denna rörelse inte utgör bank-, försäkrings- eller värdepappersrörelse som bedrivs av en bank, ett försäkringsföretag eller en registrerad värdepappershandlare), och den inkomst som härrör från den andra avtalsslutande staten förvärvas i samband med eller på grund av denna affärsrörelse.
b) Om en person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat, eller ett företag i intressegemenskap med denna person, bedriver affärsrörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten som ger upphov till inkomst, skall a) i denna punkt gälla sådan inkomst bara om verksamheten i affärsrörelsen i den förstnämnda staten är väsentlig i förhållande till verksamheten i affärsrörelsen i den andra staten. Beslutet huruvida verksamheten är väsentlig vid tillämpningen av denna punkt görs mot bakgrund av samtliga fakta och omständigheter.
c) Vid bestämmandet av om en person "bedriver en aktiv affärsrörelse" i en avtalsslutande stat enligt a) i denna punkt, skall verksamhet som bedrivs av till denna person närstående personer anses bedrivas av denna person. En person skall anses närstående till en annan om en av personerna är den rättmätige innehavaren till minst 50 procent i den andra personen (eller, i fråga om ett bolag, minst 50 procent av det sammanlagda röstetalet och minst 50 procent av det sammanlagda värdet av andelarna eller aktiekapitalet i bolaget), eller någon annan person, direkt eller indirekt, är den rättmätige innehavaren till minst 50 procent av båda personerna (eller, i fråga om ett bolag, minst 50 procent av det sammanlagda röstetalet och minst 50 procent av det sammanlagda värdet av andelarna eller aktiekapitalet i bolaget). En person skall dock alltid anses närstående till en annan om den ena personen, med hänsyn tagen till samtliga relevanta fakta och omständigheter, kontrollerar den andra eller om båda personerna kontrolleras av samma person eller personer.
5. Om ett företag med hemvist i Sverige uppbär försäkringspremier, ränta eller royalty från Förenta staterna och sådan inkomst, enligt ett dubbelbeskattningsavtal mellan Sverige och en tredje stat, är undantagen från beskattning i Sverige på grund av att inkomsten är hänförlig till ett fast driftställe som företaget har i denna tredje stat skall - utan hinder av föregående bestämmelser i denna artikel - de förmåner som annars skulle ha gällt enligt andra bestämmelser i detta avtal inte gälla sådan inkomst om den skatt som betalas för denna inkomst i den tredje staten är lägre än 60 procent av den skatt som skulle ha betalats i Sverige om inkomsten uppburits här och inte var hänförlig till det fasta driftstället i den tredje staten. Ränta eller royalty som omfattas av bestämmelserna i denna punkt får beskattas i Förenta staterna med en skatt som inte överstiger 15 procent av betalningens bruttobelopp. Försäkringspremie som omfattas av bestämmelserna i denna punkt beskattas - utan hinder av övriga bestämmelser i detta avtal - enligt Förenta staternas interna lagstiftning.
Bestämmelserna i denna punkt skall inte tilllämpas:
a) såvitt avser ränta som anges i artikel 11, om inkomsten från Förenta staterna är hänförlig till, eller har samband med, en aktiv affärsrörelse som bedrivs från det fasta driftstället i den tredje staten, med undantag för rörelse som består av att förvalta eller inneha investeringar för företagets egen räkning, om inte rörelsen avser bank eller värdepappersrörelse som bedrivs av en bank eller registrerad värdepappershandlare, eller
b) såvitt avser royalty som anges i artikel 12, om royaltyn betalas som ersättning för nyttjandet av eller för rätten att nyttja immateriella tillgångar som har producerats eller utvecklats vid det fasta driftstället.
6. En person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat som i enlighet med bestämmelserna i föregående punkter i denna artikel inte är berättigad till avtalsförmåner skall ändå åtnjuta avtalsförmåner om den behöriga myndigheten i den andra avtalsslutande staten finner att etableringen, förvärvet eller innehavet av en sådan person och bedrivandet av dess verksamhet inte har haft som ett av sina huvudsakliga syften att komma i åtnjutande av avtalsförmåner. Den behöriga myndigheten i den andra avtalsslutande staten skall överlägga med den behöriga myndigheten i den förstnämnda staten innan den vägrar avtalsförmåner enligt denna punkt.
7. Vid tillämpningen av denna artikel:
a) avser uttrycket "viktigaste aktieslag" bolagets stamaktier eller motsvarande, under förutsättning att detta aktieslag representerar majoriteten av rösterna i och värdet av bolaget.
Om inget enskilt slag av stamaktier eller motsvarande representerar majoriteten av det sammanlagda röstetalet i och värdet av bolaget, avses med "viktigaste aktieslag" de aktieslag som tillsammans representerar en majoritet av det sammanlagda röstetalet i och värdet av bolaget,
b) avser uttrycket "oproportionerligt aktieslag" varje aktieslag hos ett bolag med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat, som berättigar ägaren till en oproportionerligt stor andel, genom utdelning, inlösen eller på annat sätt, av vinster som har genererats i den andra avtalsslutande staten genom vissa av bolagets tillgångar eller verksamheter, i förhållande till ägarens andel av bolagets samtliga tillgångar eller verksamheter,
c) avser uttrycket "aktier" även depåbevis,
d) avser uttrycket "erkänd aktiebörs":
1) "NASDAQ"-systemet som ägs av "the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc." och varje aktiebörs, som registrerats hos Värdepappers- och börskommissionen ("the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission") såsom en inhemsk värdepappersbörs enligt Värdepappersbörslagen ("the U.S. Securities Exchange Act") från år 1934,
2) Stockholmsbörsen, Nordic Growth Market (NGM), och varje annan aktiebörs som står under tillsyn av Finansinspektionen, och
3) den irländska aktiebörsen samt aktiebörserna i Amsterdam, Bryssel, Köpenhamn, Frankfurt, Hamburg, Helsingfors, London, Madrid, Milano, Oslo, Paris, Reykjavik, Riga, Tallinn, Toronto, Wien, Vilnius och Zürich, och
4) varje annan aktiebörs som de behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna kommer överens om,
e) anses ett aktieslag under ett beskattningsår vara föremål för regelmässig omsättning på en eller flera aktiebörser om det sammanlagda antalet aktier i det aktieslag som omsätts på sådan aktiebörs eller sådana aktiebörser under det föregående beskattningsåret uppgår till minst 6 procent av det genomsnittliga antalet utestående aktier i det aktuella aktieslaget för det föregående beskattningsåret,
f) anses ett bolags huvudsakliga ledning och kontroll finnas i den avtalsslutande stat där det har hemvist bara om personer i direktörs ställning eller högre tjänstemannaställning inom företagsledningen utövar ett löpande ansvar för beslut rörande bolagets strategiska, finansiella och operationella policy, inklusive dess direkt och indirekt ägda dotterföretag, i större utsträckning i denna stat än i någon annan stat, och de anställda utför mer av det löpande arbete som är nödvändigt för att förbereda och fatta dessa beslut i denna stat än i någon annan stat,
g) avser uttrycket "jämförlig förmånstagare" en person med hemvist i en stat som är medlem i Europeiska unionen eller i någon annan stat inom Europeiska ekonomiska samarbetsområdet eller som är part i Nordamerikanska frihandelsavtalet (Nafta)
eller i Schweiz, men endast om denna person:
1) A) skulle vara berättigad till samtliga förmåner enligt ett fullständigt dubbelbeskattningsavtal mellan en medlemsstat inom Europeiska unionen eller någon annan stat inom Europeiska ekonomiska samarbetsområdet, eller någon stat som är part i det Nordamerikanska frihandelsavtalet (Nafta), eller i Schweiz, och den stat i vilken avtalsförmåner yrkas enligt bestämmelser som är jämförbara med punkt 2 a), b), c) 1) eller d). Om ett sådant avtal inte innehåller en långtgående bestämmelse om begränsning av förmåner, gäller dock detta endast om personen skulle ha haft rätt till avtalsförmåner enligt punkt 2 a), b), c) 1)
eller d) om personen hade haft hemvist i en av de avtalsslutande staterna enligt artikel 4, och
B) såvitt avser försäkringspremier och inkomst som anges i artikel 10, 11 eller 12, enligt ett sådant avtal hade varit berättigad till en skattesats på sådan inkomst för vilken avtalsförmåner yrkas som är minst lika låg som den skattesats som tillämpas enligt detta avtal, eller
2) är en person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat som är berättigad till avtalsförmåner enligt punkt 2 a), b), c) 1)
eller d),
h) såvitt avser utdelning, ränta eller royalty som härrör från Sverige och som rätteligen tillkommer ett bolag med hemvist i Förenta staterna, anses ett bolag med hemvist i en stat inom Europeiska unionen uppfylla villkoren ovan i g) 1) B) vid bestämmandet av om bolaget med hemvist i Förenta staterna är berättigat till förmåner enligt denna bestämmelse, om utdelning, ränta eller royalty som härrör från Sverige och betalas direkt till en sådan person med hemvist i en stat inom Europeiska unionen skulle vara undantagen från beskattning enligt något av Europeiska unionens direktiv. Detta gäller utan hinder av att dubbelbeskattningsavtalet mellan Sverige och den andra medlemsstaten inom Europeiska unionen anger en högre skattesats för en sådan betalning än den som gäller för ett bolag med hemvist i Förenta staterna enligt artikel 10, 11 eller 12.
Artikel 18
Artister och idrottsmän
1. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i artiklarna 14 och 15 får inkomst, som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar genom sin personliga verksamhet i den andra avtalsslutande staten i egenskap av artist, såsom teater eller filmskådespelare, radio- eller televisionsartist eller musiker, eller av idrottsman, beskattas i denna andra stat. Detta gäller dock inte om den bruttoinkomst som en sådan artist eller idrottsman erhåller genom sådan verksamhet, däri inbegripet kostnader som sådan person ersatts för eller som betalats för hans räkning, inte överstiger sex tusen amerikanska dollar (6 000 USD) eller motsvarande belopp i svenska kronor under en tolvmånadersperiod.
2. I fall då inkomst genom personlig verksamhet, som artist eller idrottsman utövar i denna egenskap, inte tillfaller artisten eller idrottsmannen själv utan annan person, får denna andra persons inkomst, utan hinder av bestämmelserna i artiklarna 7 och 14, beskattas i den avtalsslutande stat där artisten eller idrottsmannen utövar verksamheten, såvida det inte kan visas att varken artisten eller idrottsmannen eller denne närstående person direkt eller indirekt på något sätt får del av denna persons vinst, häri inbegripet mottagandet av uppskjuten ersättning, gratifikation, arvode, utdelning, inkomst från handelsbolag eller annan utdelning av vinst.
Artikel 19
Pension och livränta
1. Om inte bestämmelserna i artikel 20 och punkt 2 i denna artikel föranleder annat, beskattas pension och annan liknande ersättning på grund av tidigare anställning och livränta som uppbärs av och rätteligen tillkommer person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat endast i denna avtalsslutande stat.
2. Pension, svensk allmän tilläggspension däri inbegripen, och andra förmåner som utgår enligt bestämmelserna i en avtalsslutande stats socialförsäkrings eller liknande lagstiftning till person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten eller till person som är medborgare i Förenta staterna, beskattas - utan hinder av bestämmelserna i artikel 20 punkt 2
- endast i den förstnämnda staten.
3. Uttrycket "livränta" i denna artikel åsyftar ett fastställt belopp, som utbetalas periodiskt på fastställda tider under vederbörandes livstid eller under visst angivet eller fastställbart antal år och som utgår på grund av förpliktelse att verkställa dessa utbetalningar såsom ersättning för däremot fullt svarande vederlag (med undantag för redan utförda eller framtida tjänster).
4. a) Vid bestämmandet av den beskattningsbara inkomsten för en fysisk person, som har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat utan att vara medborgare i denna stat, med anledning av dennes tjänsteutövning, skall avgifter som betalas av eller för denna person till en pensionsplan eller annan plan för tryggande av ålderdomen, som är grundad i och administreras i den andra avtalsslutande staten och även är erkänd för beskattningsändamål i denna andra stat, vid beskattningen i den förstnämnda staten behandlas på samma sätt som avgift som betalas till en pensionsplan eller annan plan för tryggande av ålderdomen, som är grundad i och administreras i den förstnämnda staten och erkänd för beskattningsändamål i denna stat. Detta gäller emellertid endast om
1) avgifter betalades av eller för denna person till sådan plan innan han fick hemvist i den förstnämnda staten, och
2) den behöriga myndigheten i den förstnämnda staten anser att planen motsvarar en sådan plan som vid beskattningen är erkänd i denna stat.
b) En pensionsplan eller annan plan för tryggande av ålderdomen anses som erkänd vid beskattningen i en stat om avgifter till sådan plan är avdragsgilla eller eljest medför skattenedsättning i denna stat.
Artikel 20
Offentlig tjänst
1. a) Ersättning, med undantag för pension, som betalas av en avtalsslutande stat, dess politiska underavdelningar eller lokala myndigheter till fysisk person på grund av arbete som utförts i denna stats, dess politiska underavdelningars eller lokala myndigheters tjänst, beskattas endast i denna stat.
b) Sådan ersättning beskattas emellertid endast i den andra avtalsslutande staten om arbetet utförs i denna stat och personen i fråga har hemvist där och
1) är medborgare i denna stat, eller
2) inte fick hemvist i denna stat uteslutande för att utföra arbetet.
2. a) Pension som betalas av, eller från fonder inrättade av, en avtalsslutande stat, dess politiska underavdelningar eller lokala myndigheter till en fysisk person på grund av arbete som utförts i denna stats, dess politiska underavdelningars eller lokala myndigheters tjänst, beskattas endast i denna stat.
b) Sådan pension beskattas emellertid endast i den andra avtalsslutande staten om personen i fråga har hemvist och är medborgare i denna stat.
3. Bestämmelserna i artiklarna 14, 15, 16, 18 och 19 tillämpas på ersättning och pension som betalas på grund av arbete som utförts i samband med rörelse som bedrivs av en avtalsslutande stat, dess politiska underavdelningar eller lokala myndigheter.
4. Utan hinder av punkt 2, skall Sverige inte beskatta pension som betalas av Förenta staternas regering till svenska medborgare och personer med hemvist i Sverige (och förmånstagare som är berättigade till efterlevandestöd), om den fysiska personen anställdes av Förenta staternas regering före år 1978 för att arbeta för Förenta staternas ambassad i Stockholm eller Förenta staternas generalkonsulat i Göteborg samt omfattades av Förenta staternas "Civil Service Retirement pension plan".
Artikel 21
Studerande och praktikanter
En studerande, lärling eller affärspraktikant, som har eller omedelbart före vistelsen i en avtalsslutande stat hade hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten och som vistas i den förstnämnda staten för undervisning eller utbildning på heltid, beskattas inte i denna stat för belopp som han erhåller för sitt uppehälle, sin undervisning eller utbildning, under förutsättning att beloppen härrör från källa utanför denna stat.
Artikel 22
Annan inkomst
1. Inkomst som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat förvärvar och som inte behandlas i föregående artiklar av detta avtal beskattas endast i denna stat, oavsett varifrån inkomsten härrör.
2. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 tillämpas inte på inkomst, med undantag för inkomst av sådan fast egendom som avses i artikel 6 punkt 2, om den som har rätt till inkomsten har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat och bedriver rörelse i den andra avtalsslutande staten från ett där beläget fast driftställe eller utövar självständig yrkesverksamhet i denna andra stat från där belägen stadigvarande anordning, och inkomsten är hänförlig till det fasta driftstället eller den stadigvarande anordningen. I sådant fall tillämpas bestämmelserna i artikel 7 respektive artikel 14.
Artikel 23
Undanröjande av dubbelbeskattning
1. I enlighet med bestämmelserna i Förenta staternas lagstiftning - sådan den kan komma att ändras från tid till annan utan att den allmänna princip som anges här ändras - och med beaktande av de begränsningar som anges i denna lagstiftning, skall Förenta staterna medge person som har hemvist eller är medborgare i Förenta staterna avräkning från i Förenta staterna utgående skatt på inkomst av
a) den inkomstskatt som erlagts i Sverige av personen i fråga eller för hans räkning, och
b) beträffande bolag i Förenta staterna som äger minst 10 procent av röstetalet för aktierna i ett bolag som har hemvist i Sverige och från vilket förstnämnda bolag erhåller utdelning, den inkomstskatt som erlagts i Sverige av eller för det utdelande bolaget på vinst av vilken utdelningen betalas.
Vid tillämpningen av denna punkt och punkterna 3 och 4 skall de skatter som anges i artikel 2 punkterna 1 b) och 2 anses vara inkomstskatter utom såvitt avser de skatter som anges i punkt 1 b) 5) och 6).
2. a) I fall då en person med hemvist i Sverige förvärvar inkomst, som enligt bestämmelserna i detta avtal får beskattas i Förenta staterna, skall Sverige, utom då inkomsten beskattats endast enligt bestämmelserna i artikel 1 punkt 4, med beaktande av bestämmelserna i svensk lagstiftning - såsom de kan komma att ändras från tid till annan utan att den allmänna princip som anges här ändras - från denna persons inkomstskatt avräkna ett belopp motsvarande den inkomstskatt som betalats i Förenta staterna.
Bestämmelserna ovan i denna punkt tillämpas på motsvarande sätt vid beräkningen av skatt på sådan vinst som förvärvas av person med hemvist i Förenta staterna och som får beskattas i Sverige enligt artikel 13 punkt 7.
b) I fall då en person med hemvist i Sverige förvärvar inkomst som enligt bestämmelserna i artikel 19 punkt 2 och artikel 20 skall beskattas endast i Förenta staterna, får Sverige vid fastställandet av skattesatsen för svensk progressiv skatt beakta den inkomst som skall beskattas endast i Förenta staterna.
c) Utdelning från ett bolag med hemvist i Förenta staterna till ett bolag med hemvist i Sverige skall vara undantagen från svensk skatt i den mån utdelningen skulle ha varit undantagen från beskattning enligt svensk lagstiftning om båda bolagen hade varit svenska. Denna bestämmelse tillämpas endast om den vinst av vilken utdelningen betalas har underkastats allmän bolagsskatt i Förenta staterna.
3. I fall då en medborgare i Förenta staterna eller tidigare medborgare eller tidigare långvarigt bosatt person har hemvist i Sverige skall följande regler gälla.
a) Sverige skall i enlighet med bestämmelserna i svensk lagstiftning - såsom de kan komma att ändras från tid till annan utan att den allmänna princip som anges här ändras - från den svenska skatten avräkna den inkomstskatt som betalats till Förenta staterna på inkomst eller vinst som härrör från Förenta staterna. Sådan avräkning skall dock inte ske med högre belopp än den skatt som enligt detta avtal skulle ha erlagts till Förenta staterna om personen inte var medborgare i Förenta staterna eller tidigare medborgare eller tidigare långvarigt bosatt där.
b) Vid beräkningen av skatten i Förenta staterna skall Förenta staterna, med beaktande av de begränsningar som finns i Förenta staternas lagstiftning - såsom den kan komma att ändras från tid till annan utan att den allmänna princip som anges här ändras - från den inkomstskatt som utgår i Förenta staterna avräkna den inkomstskatt som betalats till eller tillkommer Sverige efter det att avräkning medgivits enligt punkt a) ovan.
Den sålunda medgivna avräkningen skall dock inte minska den del av skatten i Förenta staterna som får avräknas från svensk skatt enligt punkt a) ovan.
c) Vid tillämpning av punkt b) ovan skall inkomst eller vinst anses härröra från Sverige i den omfattning som behövs för att undvika dubbelbeskattning av inkomsten.
4. Vid undanröjande av dubbelbeskattning enligt denna artikel och med förbehåll för sådana källregler i en avtalsslutande stats interna lagstiftning som syftar till att begränsa avräkning av utländsk skatt skall frågan varifrån en inkomst anses härröra avgöras uteslutande enligt följande regler.
a) Inkomst, som förvärvas av person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat skall anses härröra från den andra avtalsslutande staten om den får beskattas i denna andra stat i enlighet med detta avtal, såvida den inte får beskattas i denna andra stat endast 1) på grund av medborgarskap eller tidigare medborgarskap eller tidigare långvarigt boende enligt artikel 1 punkt 4 eller 2) på grund av tidigare hemvist enligt artikel 13 punkt 7.
b) Inkomst som förvärvas av en person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat som enligt avtalet inte får beskattas i den andra avtalsslutande staten skall anses härröra från den förstnämnda staten.
Bestämmelserna i denna punkt skall inte tillämpas vid avräkning från skatt i Förenta staterna av andra utländska skatter än de som anges i artikel 2 punkterna 1 b) och 2.
Artikel 24
Förbud mot diskriminering
1. En medborgare i en avtalsslutande stat eller en juridisk person eller annan sammanslutning som bildats enligt den lagstiftning som gäller i en avtalsslutande stat, skall inte i den andra avtalsslutande staten bli föremål för beskattning eller därmed sammanhängande krav som är av annat slag eller mer tyngande än den beskattning och därmed sammanhängande krav som en medborgare i denna andra stat, en juridisk person eller en annan sammanslutning som bildats enligt den lagstiftning som gäller i denna andra stat under samma förhållanden är eller kan bli underkastad. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i artikel 1 tillämpas denna bestämmelse även på person som inte har hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat eller i båda avtalsslutande staterna.
Därvid gäller emellertid vid beskattning i Förenta staterna, att en medborgare i Förenta staterna, som inte har hemvist i Förenta staterna, inte anses befinna sig under samma förhållanden som en medborgare i Sverige, som inte har hemvist i Förenta staterna.
2. Beskattningen av ett fast driftställe, som ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat har i den andra avtalsslutande staten, skall i denna andra stat inte vara mindre fördelaktig än beskattningen av ett företag i denna andra stat, som bedriver verksamhet av samma slag. Denna bestämmelse anses inte medföra skyldighet för en avtalsslutande stat att medge person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten sådana personliga avdrag vid beskattningen och sådan skattebefrielse eller skattenedsättning på grund av civilstånd eller försörjningsplikt mot familj som medges person med hemvist i den egna staten.
3. Utom i de fall då bestämmelserna i artikel 9 punkt 1, artikel 11 punkt 5 eller artikel 12 punkt 4 tillämpas är ränta, royalty och andra betalningar från en person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat till en person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten avdragsgilla vid bestämmandet av den beskattningsbara inkomsten för den förstnämnda personen på samma villkor som betalning till person med hemvist i den förstnämnda staten. På samma sätt är skuld som person med hemvist i en avtalsslutande stat har till person med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten avdragsgill vid bestämmandet av den förstnämnda personens beskattningsbara förmögenhet på samma villkor som skuld till person med hemvist i den förstnämnda staten.
4. Ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat, vars kapital helt eller delvis ägs eller kontrolleras, direkt eller indirekt, av en eller flera personer med hemvist i den andra avtalsslutande staten, skall inte i den förstnämnda staten bli föremål för beskattning eller därmed sammanhängande krav som är av annat slag eller mer tyngande än den beskattning och därmed sammanhängande krav som ett annat liknande företag i den förstnämnda staten är eller kan bli underkastat.
5. Bestämmelserna i denna artikel hindrar inte uttagande av sådan skatt som anges i artikel 10 punkt 9.
6. Utan hinder av bestämmelserna i artikel 2 tillämpas bestämmelserna i förevarande artikel på skatter av varje slag och beskaffenhet som påförs av en avtalsslutande stat, dess politiska underavdelningar eller lokala myndigheter.
Artikel 25
Förfarandet vid ömsesidig överenskommelse
1. Om en person anser att en avtalsslutande stat eller båda avtalsslutande staterna vidtagit åtgärder som för honom medför eller kommer att medföra beskattning som strider mot bestämmelserna i detta avtal, kan han, utan att detta påverkar hans rätt att använda de rättsmedel som finns i dessa staters interna rättsordning, framlägga saken för den behöriga myndigheten i den avtalsslutande stat där han har hemvist eller är medborgare.
2. Om den behöriga myndigheten finner invändningen grundad men inte själv kan få till stånd en tillfredsställande lösning, skall myndigheten söka lösa frågan genom ömsesidig överenskommelse med den behöriga myndigheten i den andra avtalsslutande staten i syfte att undvika beskattning som strider mot avtalet. Överenskommelse som träffats genomförs utan hinder av tidsgränser eller andra processuella begränsningar i de avtalsslutande staternas interna lagstiftning.
3. De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna skall genom ömsesidig överenskommelse söka avgöra svårigheter eller tvivelsmål som uppkommer i fråga om tolkningen eller tillämpningen av avtalet. De behöriga myndigheterna kan även överlägga med varandra i syfte att komma överens om
a) fördelningen av inkomst, avdrag, avräkning eller betalningar mellan ett företag i en avtalsslutande stat och dess fasta driftställe i den andra avtalsslutande staten,
b) fördelningen av inkomst, avdrag, avräkning eller betalningar mellan olika personer,
c) till vilket inkomstslag viss inkomst skall hänföras,
d) tillämpningen av källregler beträffande viss inkomst, samt
e) definitionen av ett visst uttryck.
De kan även överlägga i syfte att undvika dubbelbeskattning i fall som inte omfattas av avtalet.
4. De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna kan träda i direkt förbindelse med varandra i syfte att träffa överenskommelse i de fall som angivits i föregående punkter.
Artikel 26
Utbyte av upplysningar
1. De behöriga myndigheterna i de avtalsslutande staterna skall utbyta sådana upplysningar som är nödvändiga för att tillämpa bestämmelserna i detta avtal eller i de avtalsslutande staternas interna lagstiftning i fråga om skatter som omfattas av avtalet i den mån beskattningen enligt denna lagstiftning inte strider mot avtalet. Utbytet av upplysningar begränsas inte av artikel 1. Upplysningar som en avtalsslutande stat mottagit skall behandlas såsom hemliga på samma sätt som upplysningar, som erhållits enligt den interna lagstiftningen i denna stat, och får yppas endast för personer eller myndigheter
(däri inbegripna domstolar och förvaltningsorgan) som fastställer, uppbär, administrerar eller driver in de skatter som omfattas av avtalet eller handlägger åtal eller besvär i fråga om dessa skatter. Dessa personer eller myndigheter skall använda upplysningarna endast för sådana ändamål. De får yppa upplysningarna vid offentlig rättegång eller i domstolsavgöranden.
2. Bestämmelserna i punkt 1 anses inte i något fall medföra skyldighet för en avtalsslutande stat att
a) vidta förvaltningsåtgärder som avviker från lagstiftning och administrativ praxis i denna avtalsslutande stat eller i den andra avtalsslutande staten,
b) lämna upplysningar som inte är tillgängliga enligt lag eller sedvanlig administrativ praxis i denna avtalsslutande stat eller i den andra avtalsslutande staten,
c) lämna upplysningar som skulle röja affärshemlighet, industri-, handels- eller yrkeshemlighet eller i näringsverksamhet nyttjat förfaringssätt eller upplysningar, vilkas överlämnande skulle strida mot allmänna hänsyn (ordre public).
3. Om en avtalsslutande stat begär upplysning enligt denna artikel, skall den andra avtalsslutande staten inhämta de upplysningar som framställningen avser på samma sätt och i samma omfattning som om den förstnämnda statens skatt var denna andra stats skatt och påförd av denna andra stat. Om behörig myndighet i en avtalsslutande stat särskilt begär det, skall den behöriga myndigheten i den andra avtalsslutande staten tillhandahålla upplysningarna enligt denna artikel i form av skriftliga vittnesintyg och bestyrkta kopior av ej redigerade originalhandlingar (däri inbegripet böcker, dokument, rapporter, protokoll, räkenskaper eller skriftväxling) i samma omfattning som sådana intyg och handlingar kan erhållas enligt lag och administrativ praxis i denna andra stat beträffande dess egna skatter.
4. De behöriga myndigheterna kan genom ömsesidig överenskommelse bestämma sättet för tillämpningen av föregående punkter i denna artikel. Sådana överenskommelser kan omfatta, men behöver inte begränsas till, förfaringssättet för genomförandet av automatiskt eller spontant utbyte av upplysningar och branschomfattande utbyte av upplysningar på begäran, samtidiga skatterevisioner och andra sådana metoder att utbyta upplysningar som kan vara nödvändiga eller lämpliga för att genomföra de i punkt 1 angivna syftena.
5. Vid tillämpningen av denna artikel tilllämpas avtalet, utan hinder av bestämmelserna i artikel 2, på skatter av varje slag som påförs av en avtalsslutande stat.
Artikel 27
Administrativ handräckning
1. De avtalsslutande staterna förbinder sig att lämna varandra handräckning och bistånd vid indrivning av skatter på vilka avtalet tilllämpas, jämte räntor, kostnader och tillägg hänförliga till sådana skatter.
2. I fråga om framställning om indrivning av skatt kan en avtalsslutande stats skattefordran, som har blivit slutgiltigt fastställd, godtas för indrivning av den andra avtalsslutande staten och kan drivas in i denna stat enligt de lagar som gäller beträffande indrivning och uppbörd av dess egna skatter.
3. Framställning skall vara åtföljd av bekräftelse som visar att skatten blivit slutgiltigt fastställd enligt lagstiftningen i den stat som gör framställningen.
4. Handräckning enligt denna artikel skall inte medges beträffande medborgare, bolag eller andra sammanslutningar i den stat hos vilken framställningen görs. Detta gäller dock inte handräckning som är nödvändig för att garantera att den skattebefrielse eller skattenedsättning som enligt avtalet medges sådan medborgare, sådant bolag eller sådana sammanslutningar inte tillkommer personer som inte är berättigade till sådana förmåner.
5. Denna artikel medför inte skyldighet för någon av de avtalsslutande staterna att vidta förvaltningsåtgärder som är av annat slag än de som används för att driva in dess egna skatter eller som skulle strida mot dess suveränitet, säkerhet eller allmänna hänsyn.
Artikel 28
Diplomatiska företrädare och konsulära tjänstemän
Bestämmelserna i detta avtal berör inte de privilegier vid beskattningen som enligt folkrättens allmänna regler eller bestämmelser i särskilda överenskommelser tillkommer diplomatiska företrädare och konsulära tjänstemän.
Artikel 29
Ikraftträdande
1. Detta avtal skall ratificeras enligt det förfarande som gäller i vardera avtalsslutande staten och ratifikationshandlingarna skall utväxlas i Washington snarast möjligt.
2. Avtalet träder i kraft med utväxlingen av ratifikationshandlingarna och dess bestämmelser tillämpas:
a) i Förenta staterna
1) beträffande skatt som innehålls vid källan, på belopp som betalas eller tillgodoförs den 1 januari som följer närmast efter den dag då avtalet träder i kraft eller senare,
2) beträffande andra skatter, i fråga om beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari som följer närmast efter den dag då avtalet träder i kraft eller senare, och
b) i Sverige
1) beträffande skatter på inkomst, på inkomst som förvärvas den 1 januari som följer närmast efter den dag då avtalet träder i kraft eller senare,
2) beträffande förmögenhetsskatten, på skatt som påförs det andra kalenderår som följer på det under vilket avtalet träder i kraft eller senare,
3) beträffande skatten på vissa premiebetalningar som betalas till utländska försäkringsgivare, på premiebetalningar som görs den 1 januari som följer närmast efter den dag då avtalet träder i kraft eller senare.
3. I och med att förevarande avtal blir tilllämpligt skall det avtal mellan Sverige och Amerikas förenta stater för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning och fastställande av bestämmelser angående ömsesidig handräckning beträffande inkomst och andra skatter och det till avtalet hörande protokollet, vilka undertecknades i Washington den 23 mars 1939 och ändrades genom tilläggsavtal, som undertecknades i Stockholm den 22 oktober 1963, upphöra att gälla. Bestämmelserna i 1939 års avtal i dess ändrade lydelse skall upphöra att tillämpas beträffande Förenta staterna och Sverige från och med den dag då motsvarande bestämmelser i förevarande avtal skall tillämpas första gången enligt bestämmelserna i punkt 2 i denna artikel. Beträffande den svenska förmögenhetsskatten skall 1939 års avtal tillämpas sista gången på skatt som påförs det första året som följer på det under vilket avtalet träder i kraft.
Artikel 30
Upphörande
Detta avtal förblir i kraft tills det uppsägs av en avtalsslutande stat. Endera avtalsslutande staten kan säga upp avtalet när som helst efter fem år räknat från den dag då avtalet träder i kraft, under förutsättning att meddelande om uppsägningen lämnats på diplomatisk väg minst sex månader i förväg. I händelse av sådan uppsägning upphör avtalet att gälla
a) i Förenta staterna
1) beträffande skatter som innehålls vid källan, på belopp som betalas eller tillgodoförs den 1 januari som följer närmast efter utgången av sexmånadersperioden eller senare,
2) beträffande andra skatter, i fråga om beskattningsår som börjar den 1 januari som följer närmast efter utgången av sexmånadersperioden eller senare, och
b) i Sverige
1) beträffande skatter på inkomst, på inkomst som förvärvas den 1 januari som följer närmast efter utgången av sexmånadersperioden eller senare,
2) beträffande förmögenhetsskatten, för skatt som påförs det andra kalenderåret som följer efter utgången av sexmånadersperioden eller senare,
3) beträffande skatten på vissa premiebetalningar som betalas till utländska försäkringsgivare, på premiebetalningar som görs den 1 januari som följer närmast efter utgången av sexmånadersperioden eller senare.
Till bekräftelse härav har undertecknade, därtill vederbörligen bemyndigade av respektive regering, undertecknat avtalet.
Som skedde i Stockholm den 1 september 1994 i två exemplar på engelska språket.
FÖR KONUNGARIKET SVERIGES REGERING
Bo Lundgren
FÖR AMERIKAS FÖRENTA STATERS REGERING
Thomas L. Siebert
Jag har äran att hänvisa till det denna dag undertecknade avtalet mellan Sveriges regering och Amerikas förenta staters regering för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning och förhindrande av skatteflykt beträffande inkomstskatter, samt att på uppdrag av Amerikas förenta staters regering bekräfta följande överenskommelser som träffats mellan våra båda regeringar.
1. Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) är ett konsortium i den betydelse detta uttryck har i artikel 8 och dess delägare utgörs av Det Danske Luftfartsselskab A/S (DDL), Det Norske Luftfartsselskap A/S (DNL) samt AB Aerotransport (ABA). För att undvika de problem som är förenade med bedrivandet av verksamhet i Förenta staterna genom ett konsortium, bildade delägarna i konsortiet år 1946 ett bolag i New York, Scandinavian Airlines of North America Inc. (SANA Inc.) -
ursprungligen benämnt Scandinavian Airlines System, Inc. - för att på deras vägnar bedriva verksamhet i Förenta staterna enligt ett agenturavtal daterat den 18 september 1946. Ett liknande avtal ingicks direkt mellan SAS och SANA Inc. den 14 mars 1951 och reviderades den 4 augusti 1970.
Enligt agenturavtalet är SANA Inc. behörigt att fullgöra endast sådana uppgifter som SAS tilldelar SANA Inc., vilka alla har samband med internationell luftfart. Enligt detta avtal krediteras SAS automatiskt alla intäkter som uppbärs av SANA Inc. SAS debiteras för driftskostnaderna för den av SANA Inc.
bedrivna verksamheten i enlighet med villkoren i agenturavtalet. Det åligger SAS enligt villkoren i agenturavtalet att ersätta SANA Inc. för alla kostnader oavsett vilka intäkter som SANA Inc. har. SANA Inc. bedriver ingen annan verksamhet än sådan som sammanhänger med eller föranleds av den verksamhet som SAS bedriver med luftfartyg i internationell trafik.
Med hänsyn till SAS-konsortiets speciella beskaffenhet och med hänsyn till det ovan beskrivna agenturavtalet, kommer Förenta staterna vid tillämpningen av artikel 8 i det denna dag undertecknade avtalet att behandla all inkomst som SANA Inc.
förvärvar genom användningen av luftfartyg i internationell trafik som inkomst förvärvad av SAS-konsortiet.
2. Det förutsätts att med hänvisningen i artikel 19 punkt 2 till lagstiftning liknande socialförsäkringslagstiftningen i en avtalsslutande stat avses, beträffande Förenta staterna, "tier 1 Railroad Retirement benefits".
Om detta är i överensstämmelse med Er uppfattning, skulle jag uppskatta en bekräftelse på detta från Er.
Mottag, Ers Excellens, denna förnyade försäkran om min utmärkta högaktning.
Undertecknat i Stockholm den 1 september 1994
För utrikesministern
Mr. Thomas L. Siebert
Utomordentlige och
Befullmäktigade Ambassadör för
Amerikas Förenta Stater
Jag har äran att bekräfta mottagandet av Ert brev daterat den 1 september 1994 som lyder enligt följande:
"Jag har äran - - - försäkran om min utmärkta högaktning."
Jag har äran att bekräfta, på den svenska regeringens vägnar, att den av Er föreslagna behandlingen av Scandinavian Airlines of North America Inc. och "tier 1 Railroad Retirement benefits", är i överensstämmelse med vår uppfattning.
Mottag, Ers Excellens, denna förnyade försäkran om min utmärkta högaktning.
Undertecknat i Stockholm den 1 september 1994
Bo Lundgren
Jag har äran att hänvisa till det denna dag undertecknade protokollet om ändring i avtalet mellan Sveriges regering och Amerikas förenta staters regering för undvikande av dubbelbeskattning och förhindrande av skatteflykt beträffande inkomstskatter, samt att på uppdrag av Amerikas förenta staters regering bekräfta följande överenskommelser som träffats mellan våra båda regeringar.
1. Med hänvisning till artikel 17 punkt 2 e) 2) i avtalet
Det förutsätts att vid tillämpningen av artikel 17 punkt 2 e)
2), såvitt avser Sverige, en persons avdragsgilla kostnader och bruttointäkt för beskattningsåret skall reduceras med koncernbidrag som lämnats till en person med hemvist i Sverige eller ett fast driftställe i Sverige.
2. Med hänvisning till artikel 17 punkt 6 i avtalet
Det förutsätts vid tillämpningen av artikel 17 punkt 6 att de legala kraven för underlättandet av den fria rörligheten för kapital och personer inom den Europeiska unionen, tillsammans med de olika interna inkomstskattesystemen, skattestimulansåtgärder samt befintlig skatteavtalspraxis mellan Europeiska unionens medlemsstater kommer att beaktas.
Enligt denna punkt instrueras den behöriga myndigheten att beakta huruvida etableringen, förvärvet eller innehavet av ett bolag, eller bedrivandet av dess verksamhet, har eller har haft som ett av sina huvudsakliga syften att komma i åtnjutande av de förmåner som följer av detta avtal. Den behöriga myndigheten får därför, under vissa givna förutsättningar, besluta att en förändring av omständigheterna som skulle innebära att ett bolag inte längre uppfyller villkoren för avtalsförmåner enligt artikel 17 punkterna 2 och 3 inte nödvändigtvis måste innebära att avtalsförmåner förvägras. En sådan förändring av omständigheterna kan inbegripa en förändring i den stat där en andelsägare med väsentlig andel i bolaget har hemvist, avyttring av en del av andelarna i ett svenskt bolag till en person med hemvist i en annan medlemsstat i Europeiska unionen eller en utvidgning av ett bolags verksamhet i andra medlemsstater i Europeiska unionen, allt på sedvanliga affärsmässiga villkor. Den behöriga myndigheten kommer att beakta dessa förändringar av omständigheterna (vid sidan av övriga relevanta faktorer som vanligtvis beaktas enligt artikel 17 punkt 6) vid bestämmandet av huruvida ett sådant bolag skall förbli berättigat till avtalsförmåner vad avser inkomst som härrör från Förenta staterna. Om dessa förändrade omständigheter inte beror på skatteflyktsskäl, kommer även detta av den behöriga myndigheten att anses som en faktor som talar till fördel för fortsatt avtalstillämpning enligt artikel 17 punkt 6.
3. Med hänvisning till artikel 26 i avtalet
Det förutsätts att den befogenhet som de behöriga myndigheterna i vardera avtalsslutande staten har att inhämta upplysningar inbegriper en befogenhet att erhålla upplysningar som innehas av finansiella institutioner, ombud, representanter eller förvaltare (dock inte upplysningar som skulle röja konfidentiell kommunikation mellan en klient och en advokat, juridisk rådgivare eller annan juridisk representant i fall då klienten söker juridisk rådgivning) samt upplysningar gällande äganderätt i juridiska personer, och att den behöriga myndigheten i vardera avtalsslutande staten har befogenhet att utbyta sådana upplysningar i enlighet med förevarande artikel.
Om detta överensstämmer med Er uppfattning, skulle jag uppskatta en bekräftelse på detta från Er.
Mottag, Ers Excellens, denna förnyade försäkran om min utmärkta högaktning.
Undertecknat i Washington den 30 september 2005
E. Anthony Wayne
Jag har äran att bekräfta mottagandet av Ert brev daterat den 30 september 2005 som lyder enligt följande:
"Jag har äran - - - försäkran om min utmärkta högaktning."
Jag har äran att bekräfta, på den svenska regeringens vägnar, att de av Er gjorda hänvisningarna till artikel 17 punkt 2 e)
2), artikel 17 punkt 6 och artikel 26 är i överensstämmelse med vår uppfattning.
Mottag, Ers Excellens, denna förnyade försäkran om min utmärkta högaktning.
Undertecknat i Washington den 30 september 2005
Gunnar Lund
Lag (2005:1088)
.
Svensk författningssamling
Svensk författningssamling (SFS) innehåller gällande lagar och förordningar. Om en författning ändras ersätts den gamla texten med den nya.